[{"x":0.0261342328962878,"y":0.201406329637366,"no_docs":16,"words":[{"prob":1.85653333341246e-05,"word":"year"},{"prob":4.24307711884245e-05,"word":"music"},{"prob":6.6232502142322e-05,"word":"women"},{"prob":1.85653333341246e-05,"word":"live"},{"prob":0.0165854668310148,"word":"born"},{"prob":4.13768018177034e-05,"word":"album"},{"prob":1.85653333341246e-05,"word":"war"}],"docs":["The actress Sophiya Haque who starred in Coronation Street has died days after being diagnosed with cancer.The 41-year-old, who played barmaid Poppy Morales, died at a London hospital this morning according to her agent.She had been diagnosed with cancer only recently after falling ill before Christmas.Miss Haque developed a blood clot on her lungs and died in the early hours of this morning.She was described by her agent Oliver Thomson as \"such a wonderful friend\", who confirmed her death to the .Evening StandardMs Haque lived in London with her partner, musical director David White, and the couple were in the process of building a houseboat when she fell ill.Mr Thomson added: \u201cThey were very happy together.\u201dShe was currently performing the role of Sylvia in Privates on Parade for the Michael Grandage Company.Ms Haque was also well known for her roles in West End productions including and .Bombay Dreams, The Far PavilionsWah Wah Girls","Arnold Schwarzenegger doesn't think there's a parallel between film and real-world gun violence.The 65-year-old former governor of California returns to the big screen Friday as the sheriff of an Arizona border town tasked with stopping a Mexican cartel boss from returning to Mexico. It marks his first leading role since serving as The Governator for six years.\"I personally feel that this is entertainment,\" said Schwarzenegger. \"The other thing is a serious real life tragedy. I think that we are going to continue doing entertainment. That is what we are doing as our profession, but at the same time, we all have a responsibility, I think, to improve the situation that we are in.\"Schwarzenegger noted it's important not to stigmatize mental illnesses. He also cited parenting, education, security and gun laws as contributing factors to the issue of gun violence.\"We as a society have the responsibility to look at this and leave no stone unturned,\" he said.Despite returning to moviemaking with and last year's , Schwarzenegger still wants to keep a toe in the political pool. He launched a think tank last year at the University of Southern California, the Schwarzenegger Institute for State and Global Policy. He hopes to work on reforming immigration, energy and environmental policies.The Last StandThe Expendables 2\"Those things needs to be addressed \u2014 and even the budget deficit,\" said Schwarzenegger. \"How do you stop spending $1.3 trillion more than we are taking in? What do we do about it? All of those things I think were a failure, so our institute will address all those issues and study it. I will be involved with that, but I am not sitting in Sacramento. I am, in the meantime, sitting in Hollywood and continuing in the movie business.\"Schwarzenegger said his smaller part in Expendables 2 prepared him for his starring role in which also features Johnny Knoxville. He'll next be seen alongside Sylvester Stallone in The Tomb set for release later this year.Last Stand,\"I feel I have a bigger range, acting-wise,\" said Schwarzenegger. \"It could be because of the age. It could be because of my experience that I have had now as governor.\"AP","There are few more frightening sights on a dark night out than a thirsty hen party. You will often hear the war-cry-like screeches before you've even spotted the tiaras glistening like military helmets or the aggressively worn feather boas.And you only have to have spent a couple of Saturday nights in any UK town centre (or any time at Gatwick South Terminal) to know that they are to be given a wide berth. Particularly the ones with a party-starved aunty in their midst.Many fine men have been destroyed by the women's single-minded and unrelenting energy.So it was not without a certain amount of trepidation that I went to my first ever hen night last weekend. My friend Nina, a former university housemate, is getting married, and in an enlightened piece of party-planning, I (and a couple of other men) were allowed to join this usually female-only activity.Which is how we found ourselves dressed as David Bowie (she's a big fan) on a train to Oxford for the night.Thankfully, there was a touch more decorum than what I've been led to believe constitutes the average hen night. There were penis straws (an unsurprisingly unsatisfying way to drink a pint of ale), but there were no L-plates and any randy aunties had been left behind.Things were pretty good compared to stag parties too: less enforced drinking, more prosecco and more film watching. There is, however, much more noise, and the national pastime of humiliating your closest friends with embarrassing revelations, remains.An imbalance of the sexes is rarely a good thing: I've worked in offices where there has been an excess of men and at those where there are far more women than men. In both, things get unhealthy. Too many men and you often get a shouty, bullying environment. Too many women and the bullying is still there, just of the psychological, evil email kind.Far better, therefore, to even things up. And if that means in the world of stags and hens, all the better. Go with an open mind and it will only help men and women understand each other more. And maybe be a bit less frightened."," My mum owns a butcher's which was my nan's in Liverpool city centre market and my dad is retired but used to have a little caf\u00e9.My parents are\u2026 A nice little semi-detached with my mother. A very warm household.The household I grew up in\u2026 I always wanted to be a rock star. Liam Gallagher and Richard Ashcroft were inspirations.When I was a child I wanted to be\u2026 I'd like to be a bit more patient. Sometimes I want it all now, you know what I mean? In some ways it's good because it drives you on.If I could change one thing about myself\u2026 tennis.You wouldn't know it but I am very good at\u2026 computers or technology in general. I have a smartphone but I may as well have an old Nokia.You may not know it but I'm no good at\u2026 having a number-one album.At night I dream of\u2026 Adidas popper trackie bottoms.I wish I had never worn\u2026 A lucky boy from the Wirral.What I see when I look in the mirror\u2026 At the moment, my Burberry leather jacket.My favourite item of clothing\u2026 wrestling. WWE. It's like an American version of Coronation Street where they all have to fight.It's not fashionable but I like\u2026 a nice little one-bed flat in north London. Cosy; pictures of Brigitte Bardot and The Beatles on the wall.My house is\u2026 The Liver Building. Everyone in Liverpool has a thing for it. As a kid there was that story: that if the birds on top of the towers ever fly away, then the city will crumble. So I hope that they stay there forever.My favourite building\u2026 Al Pacino in a new Tarantino film. That's a good idea actually. I'll get emailing.Movie heaven\u2026 Tom Petty, Full Moon Fever. It's a cracking album.The last album I bought\u2026 This may sound arrogant but I don't have any.My greatest regret\u2026 Rita Ora.My secret crush\u2026 My girlfriend, Suki. She's the love of my life. Hope that's made up for the Rita Ora thing.The person who really makes me laugh\u2026 At Christmas at my mum's, a bit hungover watching The Snowman and the Snowdog. It's mind-blowing that isn't it? It was the dog. The dog fucking had me off.The last time I cried\u2026 I've got a new album out this year, then hopefully another two in five years. At the back-end of this year it would be good to get known out in America as well.My five-year plan\u2026 To follow your dreams and be who you want to be.What's the point? Ambitious, love, enjoyable, exciting, swagger, tailored.My life in six words\u2026A life in briefMiles Kane was born in the Wirral in 1986. He first broke into the UK charts as the front man of The Rascals, but made his name as a member of The Last Shadow Puppets, the band he formed with close friend Alex Turner of The Arctic Monkeys. Their album, The Age of Understatement, recorded in just two weeks, went to number one in the UK charts and was nominated for the 2008 Mercury prize. His debut solo album entered the UK download chart top 10 and his second album is due for release later this year","While the world is celebrating the life and poetry of Scotland's national bard this week, at Burns Nights across the globe, a charity will mark the day in a different way: by announcing its Scot of the Year.The past 12 months have been awash with the \"tartan spirit\": Scots brought home 14 medals in the Olympics and 11 in the Paralympics. Andy Murray became the only man to win the Olympic singles gold and the US Open in the same year, while cyclist Chris Hoy became the most successful Olympian ever.Scottish politicians secured the right for a referendum to be held on their nation's independence, while the daughter of a Scot wrote the best-selling book in British history \u2013 Fifty Shades of Grey.Willie Docherty, CEO of ScotsCare, the charity which is organising the award, chosen by public vote, said it would ensure \"Scots get the recognition for continually punching above their weight\". Martha Payne, 10, who raised more than \u00a3100,000 to help schools in Malawi from her blog about her school dinners, is in the top position. asked some of Scotland's highest-profile stars who they would vote the best Scot of 2012. They didn't hold back.The Independent on SundayKatherine GraingerOlympic gold-medal winnerBritain's most successful female rower. The Glasgow-born athlete also has silver medals from the Sydney, Athens and Beijing Olympics, and six world championship titles in her collection. Her Scot of the Year is singer Emeli Sand\u00e9, who received the Brit Awards Critics' Choice Award last year and wowed crowds at the Games. \"Listening to her at the opening and closing ceremonies at the Olympics was absolutely amazing. Definitely a gold medal voice,\" Grainger said.Django DjangoMusiciansThe Mercury award-nominated Scottish indie\u00a0rock band met at Edinburgh College of Art and now live in London. They said their Scot of the Year was electronic music producer Hudson Mohawke (real name: Ross Birchard), who is signed to Warp records and Kanye West's record label. \"[We] love the TNGHT EP and we think he will do great things in hip-hop this year,\" the band said.Alex SalmondScotland's First MinisterBorn in Linlithgow, West Lothian, Salmond is head of the Scottish National Party and the longest-serving First Minister. His Scot of the Year is the late Khalil Dale, the British Red Cross worker from Dumfries who was abducted and murdered in Pakistan last year. \"A true Scot with true compassionate values, he dedicated 30 years of his life to helping others. Fittingly, he has been nominated for the annual Robert Burns Humanitarian Award to be announced next weekend,\" Mr Salmond said.Jenny ColganNovelistThe Ayrshire-born writer has written more than a dozen books; her science-fiction Doctor Who novel was published last year. Her Scot of the Year is tennis star Andy Murray, who won the Olympic gold medal and the US Open last year. \"Sorry to be so boring, but it has to be [him].I think it's ridiculous to demand that our top athletes are tame, smiling creatures. He's brilliant at what he does; he doesn't need to be bloody Katherine Jenkins as well,\" said Colgan.Claire MundellChair of Bafta in Scotland and director of Glasgow's Synchronicity FilmsThe award-winning film-maker's Scot of the Year is the actress Karen Gillan, who left Doctor Who last year. \"She's one of the UK's coolest, brightest stars. Last year Karen gave us one of the best, most heartbreaking Doctor Who exits of all time, and also scooped best female drama performance for her role as Amy Pond \u2013 and deservedly so. She's destined for great things,\" Ms Mundell said.Sir Menzies CampbellMP for North East FifeThe former leader of the Liberal Democrats is also a former Olympic athlete and barrister. His Scot of the Year is rower Katherine Grainger, who took gold at the 2012 Olympics. \"It took enormous commitment and determination after three successive silver medals to put herself on the line once more in London. Scots of all ages could not have a better role model,\" said Sir Menzies.Margaret CurranLabour MP for Glasgow EastCurran, the shadow Secretary of State for Scotland, has been working in the Scottish government since 1999. Her Scot of the Year is fellow MP Anne Begg, the first wheelchair user elected to the House of Commons, and chair of the Work and Pensions Select Committee. \"Anne is an outstanding role model for MPs. She is dedicated, forensically intelligent and, in my view, far too modest. Anne is the unsung heroine of Parliament when it comes to welfare reform in Britain and deserves credit for all the hours she puts in to holding this Tory-led Government to account,\" Ms Curran said.Irvine WelshNovelist, playwright and writerWelsh was born in Leith and shot to fame when his novel Trainspotting was published. His Scot of the Year is musician and producer Calvin Harris. \"[His album] 18 Months was massively successful; it's already like an old-school greatest hits album. More importantly, 2012 was a huge year for dance music as it really took over America. Calvin Harris and others constantly toured and thus promoted the genre. No other Scottish artist had his reach in 2012,\" said Welsh.Geoff EllisMusic promoterGeoff Ellis organises Scotland's largest music festival, T in the Park. His Scot of the Year is cyclist Sir Chris Hoy. \"He's Scotland's highest achieving sports person and the most successful British Olympian ever. He's inspired a whole generation worldwide through a combination of phenomenal hard work and dedication. Chris, and his fellow Olympians, have elevated sport stars to superstar status,\" said Mr Ellis.LuluSingerThe Glasgow-born star has been in the entertainment industry for more than 50 years. Her Scot of the Year is the actor Alan Cumming, who performed every character in an adaptation of Macbeth last year. \"Alan is a great ambassador for Scottish arts. He is so multi-talented \u2013 a serious actor and great writer but always with a wry Scottish humour and twinkle in his eye,\" Lulu said.","Steampunk, once a cultish mix of sci-fi, steam and Victoriana in film and books, is now poised to conquer the world of fashion. Forecasters say the style, which blends the gaslight romance of Victorian London with a frisson of H G Wells and Jules Verne-inspired fantasy, is poised to make a massive leap from niche to the high street.The news will come as little surprise to the tens of thousands who are already into the retro-futuristic style. But experts at the computer giant IBM predict that \"steampunk will shift from low-production, high-cost 'craft' manufacturing to mass-production\" within the next two years.IBM analysed social media and other internet sites, and found that the amount of online discussion about steampunk increased 11-fold between 2009 and 2012.It also noted that, since 2010, more than 20 major department stores and other retailers had become \"steampunk savvy\".Fashion labels, accessories suppliers and jewellery-makers are expected to integrate steampunk looks into their designs \u2013 from corsets and aviator goggles to lace veils and frock coats.Evidence of the emerging trend can already be seen on the catwalks. Prada's winter men's campaign featured several of Hollywood's leading males, including Gary Oldman, Jamie Bell and Willem Dafoe \u2013 dressed for adventure in heavily tailored, steampunk-inspired suits. The hats and equestrian-themed outfits in John Galliano's summer 2013 collection for Dior are said to have been similarly influenced.High-street and internet retailers haven't been slow to react. Topshop and Asos have already embraced the trend, with the former offering a gothic velvet-and-lace bralet teamed with a floor-length pleated skirt in oxblood, and Asos has a double-breasted coat. Alternatively, Planet offers a veil fascinator.The distinctive style \u2013 the name was first coined to distinguish a genre of fantasy set in an alternative Victorian era \u2013 can now be widely seen in everything from blockbuster films such as Van Helsing, starring Hugh Jackman, and the Robert Downey Jr Sherlock Holmes films through to some of Lady Gaga's wacky outfits and the steamship entrance of singer Rihanna at the London Paralympics.IBM said its Birth of a Trend study looked at how trends spread globally online, and whether what's trending on social networks is likely to become commercially viable.Trevor Davis, IBM's consumer products expert, said: \"Technology can provide tremendous foresight, to help businesses differentiate what is a fleeting fad versus what is an enduring trend.\"Some fashionistas have been sniffy: one dismissed steampunk as \"what happens when goths discover brown\".But IBM expressed confidence in its work, saying its software was able to distinguish between sarcasm and sincerity to spot developing trends.Steampunk chicIt isn't cheap but if you want to get the look, here's our guide: Toppers, bowlers, veils, and even ball masksHeadgear Military trenches and greatcoatsCoats Double-breasted, pin-stripe suits with waistcoatsJackets For her, the chiffon blouse; for him, collarlessShirts Bustles, corsets and petticoatsUnderwear Mix and match velour, velvet and laceDresses Jeans make the look less severeTrousers Spats, platform lace-up boots from cut-price fashion chainsShoes Goggles are a must, as are opulent brooches and pocket watches. Mobile phones can be \"Victorianised\"Accessories","Frank Keating, who has died at the age of 75, was a giant of sports journalism, although as a columnist and feature writer whose work habitually brought out the humanity and humour in a subject, he would have chortled self-mockingly at such a grandiose epitaph.This year marks the 50th anniversary of Keating\u2019s arrival at The Guardian, which he served initially as a sub-editor earning \u00a35 a week. After leaving to spend seven years in television, he returned in 1970 having impressed with freelance reports for The Times from the Mexico World Cup. He continued to pen wonderfully evocative pieces infused with wit, joy, melancholy, mischief, romanticism, drama, well-channelled vitriol and a welcome sense of proportion for The Guardian and The Observer until he fell ill with pneumonia in December.Keating\u2019s passion for cricket was reflected in books about Ian Botham, Geoffrey Boycott and Graham Gooch, although Another Bloody Day in Paradise, about England\u2019s tour of the West Indies in 1980-81, arguably found him at the peak of his literary powers. He collaborated with Barry John, the former Wales rugby union player, and produced various anthologies of his articles. Half-Time Whistle, an autobiography, was published in 1992 and shortlisted for the Sports Book of the Year award.There were countless pithy columns, too, for Punch, The Spectator, New Statesman and The Oldie, yet in press terms The Guardian was his spiritual home. The latter description also fitted the counties of Herefordshire \u2013 where he was born and went back to live in a rural idyll with his second wife, Jane, and their son and daughter \u2013 and neighbouring Gloucestershire (or \u201cGlos\u201d, as he affectionately referred to his cricketing favourites).Born into a Catholic family, Keating was educated by Benedictine monks at Belmont Abbey, near Hereford, and Douai, a public school in Berkshire. He entered journalism at basement level, honing his craft on papers in Stroud, Hereford, Guildford, Bristol, Southern Rhodesia, Gloucester and Slough before graduating to The Guardian in 1963. He then landed a job as Editor of Outside Broadcasts with Rediffusion TV, remaining for four years. Moving to Thames Television in 1967 he was Head of Special Projects before rejoining The Guardian.Back in Fleet Street, or rather Grays Inn Road, and later Farringdon Road, where the paper had its London offices, he was given free rein by a sports editor, John Samuel, who was not tied to the stiff, pompous style of broadsheet prose. On Keating\u2019s retirement in 2002 (a technicality which did not prevent his gracing its pages for a further decade) his friend and colleague Matthew Engel encapsulated his journalism as \u201cat once evocative, nostalgic and very, very fresh\u201d.When I pitched up as a sub-editor on The Guardian sports desk in 1981, it was quickly apparent that Keating\u2019s occasional forays into the office were to be treasured. All but a skeleton staff would soon be in a nearby pub listening to his indiscreet tales from the press box or an overseas tour. Every summer, filing from Wimbledon, he called the ladies\u2019 trophy \u201cThe Golden Biscuit\u201d, and we would groan, as is the wont of would-be scribes who fancy, in the time-honoured way of subs, that they can do better.However, he not only retained his colleagues\u2019 respect but built a community of readers who regarded him as a friend. He excelled in evoking the atmosphere of a bygone age \u2013 he was the eternal schoolboy in his enthusiasm for the heroes of his youth \u2013 though a derisive column about the \u201crebel\u201d English cricketers who toured South Africa during the apartheid era showed there was more to him than wistful reverie and maverick word play.After I departed for The Independent, I returned from the Potteries confident I had the definitive feature about Port Vale\u2019s FA Cup tussle with Tottenham. With a mixture of admiration and dismay I discovered Keating had secured a moving interview with Roy Sproson, who had been sacked as manager after 30 years and 842 games for Vale. Like a broken-hearted lover, he revealed that he would be in his newsagent\u2019s shop while his nephew faced Spurs. That year, 1988, Keating was named Sports Journalist of the Year in the British Press Awards.Roger Alton, the former editor of The Independent, became close to the endlessly affable wordsmith while working as Samuel\u2019s deputy. He spoke of Keating\u2019s love of the West Country and happy marriage to Jane (he had once been engaged to Anne Robinson), also recalling \u201chis kindness to younger, junior and far less talented journalists\u201d, which I can vouch for, and an \u201cextraordinary capacity for good living, which never interfered with his work\u201d.A vivid picture emerged of Keating\u2019s life in Notting Hill before he retreated to the country. \u201cYou\u2019d have a long night talking about all sorts of things, not just his beloved Glos,\u201d Alton said. \u201cI\u2019d pass out, sleep at his flat, then stagger into work barely able to speak. Frank would have already filed 1,000 words of immaculate prose on Dennis Lillee, the Worcester county ground, football programmes, whatever. He was a true wonder.\u201dFrancis Vincent Keating, sports journalist and author: born Herefordshire 4 October 1937; married firstly Sally Head (marriage dissolved), secondly Jane Sinclair (one son, one daughter); died Hereford 25 January 2013.","Julia Gillard\u2019s partner, popularly known as the \u201cFirst Bloke\u201d, is fast turning into Australia\u2019s answer to the Duke of Edinburgh.\u201cYou again?\u201d Tim Mathieson reportedly greeted the Queen on meeting her for the second time at Buckingham Palace. And in his latest gaffe, Mr Mathieson urged men to seek out \u201ca small, female, Asian doctor\u201d to examine them for prostate cancer.An \u201cambassador\u201d for men\u2019s health, Mr Mathieson made the remark at a reception for the West Indian cricket team at Ms Gilllard\u2019s Canberra residence, The Lodge, last night. It was greeted, reportedly, with awkward laughter, with which the Prime Minister did not join in.\u00a0According to Tony Wright, a political journalist, her face \u201cperformed a remarkable transition \u2013 jolly, carefree smile to impenetrable stone\u201d. Mr Wright observed: \u201cTim, Julia Gillard\u2019s merry prankster sidekick, had struck again.\u201dPrecisely what the Prime Minister said to Mr Mathieson after they had farewelled their final guest will, regrettably, never be known. In a radio interview today, Ms Gillard was diplomatic, noting that her partner - a former estate agent and hairdresser - was \u201cvery passionate\u201d about the need for prostate checks and that \u201cobviously there\u2019s various ways of getting that message across\u201d.Amid a storm of criticism, Mr Mathieson apologised for \u201ca joke\u201d which \u201con reflection I accept \u2026 was in poor taste\u201d. He had told the crowd: \u201cWe can get a blood test for it, but the digital examination is the only true way to get a correct reading on your prostate, so make sure you go and do that, and perhaps look for a small, female, Asian doctor is probably the best way.\u201dThe chief executive of Australia\u2019s Prostate Cancer Foundation, Anthony Lowe, described the remark as \u201ca bit unfortunate\u201d. Dr Lowe also pointed out that men should have both the blood test and the digital rectal examination, as neither was perfect.Mr Wright wrote: \u201cIt seems a fair bet the unfortunate fellow is unlikely to be undertaking many public microphone duties at the Prime Minister\u2019s side for some time. Or, for that matter, sitting down without a cushion.\u201d","On \"Si Si (Je suis un Rock Star)\" Bill Wyman sings about picking up a Brazilian woman and taking her via Concorde to his south of France residence. But while spending the Seventies in Saint-Paul-de-Vence, France, the Rolling Stone wasn't just using his exotic homestead to his advantage in the bedroom. He was also hanging with the artist Marc Chagall and learning about art.\"I knew nothing about art until I went to France,\" Wyman tells me. \"But I met all these bloody great artists who are like gods \u2013 Chagall, C\u00e9sar, Arman \u2013 and, although I was in awe of them they treated me as an equal. They thought I was an artist of music.\"Wyman, who tells me he has a store of 20,000 photographs, is known as the Stones' \"librarian\" for his obsessive diary-keeping \u2013 of which the photography is an extension. He has been taking pictures since the age of 11, when his uncle gave him a Box Brownie camera. But it was his friendship with Chagall that really ignited Wyman's interest in fine art.\"I really do look at things. The average person walks along looking at the ground,\" he says. \"But I don't do anything special, I just take the bloody picture.\"After first being championed by his friend the photographer Terry O'Neill, Wyman has had over a dozen photography exhibitions. He is in London at the Rook &amp; Raven Gallery to promote the latest, a \"rather special\" one for him, which includes \"re-workings\" of his snaps (from landscapes to moody shots of Mick Jagger and Jerry Hall) by contemporary artists including Pam Glew and Wyman's friend Gerald Scarfe, the illustrator behind Pink Floyd's The Wall visuals.During his time living in France Wyman was over at Chagall's house \"all the time\" and on one on occasion noticed a beautiful Picasso vase. \"But that's a Picasso! How did you get this?\" he cried. \"I gave him one of mine, and Picasso gave me one of his. We swap,\" said Chagall. Wyman responded with: \"But that's what I do with Eric Clapton! We swap new albums. I never thought real artists did things like that.\"He was born William George Perks in 1936 later changing his name to Wyman by deed poll in tribute to a friend with whom he had served in the Royal Air Force. A bit older than the other Stones, he stepped in as their bassist in 1962 after Dick Taylor left, and was reportedly asked to join simply because he had his own amplifier. Wyman was the first of the Stones to break out on his own in 1993 after a 30-year stint in the band.Since then he has had success with The Rhythm Kings, run his Sticky Fingers restaurants, become an accomplished archaeologist (even patenting his own brand of metal detector), written books\u2026 \"My life is full,\" he says. \"I work from morning to night just taking time out to go to the toilet, make a cup of tea and have my dinner.\"At 76 his shaggy hair is fully grey and his bold eyebrows and angular face softened. Sitting in the gallery's chilly basement he moves closer to the small radiator and often cups his hands around a mug of tea for warmth. He is fresh from performing live with the Stones for the first time in 22 years at the band's 50th-birthday celebrations in December, an experience he describes as \"short and sweet, I suppose you could say\", having consisted of just two songs.Talking of his \"fantastic girls\", three teenagers aged 18, 17 and 14, with his third wife Suzanne Accosta, his voice fills with pride. \"[The 02 gig] was the first time they'd seen me play with the Stones, you know. They'd been to Stones shows before but never seen me on stage with them, so that was kind of nice. I did get some quite rousing applause when I went on.\"Sadly Wyman is cut short by a rather overpowering PR who repeatedly vetoes any questions unrelated to the exhibition \u2013 which is tricky as the paintings are yet to be delivered.Under the circumstances I refrain from asking Wyman about the Jimmy Savile scandal, but I'd have been keen to hear his view as a man who became notorious for his relationship with a minor.His relationship with Mandy Smith began secretly when she was 13 and became sexual when she was 14, according to Smith. In an interview with The Observer in 2006 Wyman said: \"I don't know [how it happened]. It's the magic of the moment, basically. It was 1984 when I met her. We got married in 1989. That was a disaster.\" They divorced in 1991 and Smith subsequently told the Daily Mail: \"People aren't as protective of celebrities nowadays and if this had happened recently I think Bill would have ended up in prison.\"It is hard to reconcile this, or indeed the Wyman reputed to have bedded a thousand women, with the likeable, domestically minded person in front of me. Is he happy? \"I've never been happier,\" he says. \"I'm a father and not a grandfather. At my age my three gorgeous daughters should be my grandchildren, shouldn't they? But they're my children. And I'm very fortunate since I can spend more time with them than I could have if I was younger because I would have been touring.\"Bill Wyman-Reworked, Rook &amp; Raven, London W1 (020 7323 0805) 21 February to 31 March","With his bald head, black clothes and unusual kit \u2013 incorporating two huge parade bass drums \u2013 Ed Cassidy was the instantly recognisable drummer with Spirit, the Los Angeles psychedelic group fondly remembered for the infectious, harmony-heavy, 1969 US hit \"I Got A Line On You\" and the FM radio favourite \"Mr Skin\", a 1970 tune his nickname inspired. For three decades he was a mainstay and the spiritual leader of the many incarnations of the band he formed in 1967 with his stepson, the guitarist Randy California.They were LA contemporaries of Arthur Lee &amp; Love and, like them, embodied the freedom of the hippie era. \"What I wanted was a band with no categories that could attempt anything, any style, and make it their own,\" he said. However, their distinctive blend of rock, pop, Latin, jazz and classical influences often proved too esoteric for the mainstream, though their 1970 album Twelve Dreams Of Dr Sardonicus has gone on to sell 500,000 copies, while the cult release Potato Land made the British charts in 1981.Born on an Illinois farm in 1923, he grew up in Bakersfield, California, to where his family moved during the 1930s depression. His father died when he was young; his stepfather played the fiddle and instilled in him a love of all kinds of music, from country &amp; western to Dixieland and big band jazz. He turned professional, though his career as a big band drummer was interrupted by two years in the Navy during the Second World War.He took odd jobs before returning to music, at one time playing 282 consecutive one-nighters in 17 states in and around the Midwest with a showband. He also had a short stint with the San Francisco Opera before enrolling in a State Teachers College in 1950. Realising that teaching was not for him he moved to Los Angeles, where he worked with Gerry Mulligan, Art Pepper and Cannonball Adderley.He became tired of his jazz-sideman role, and in 1964 he joined the Rising Sons \u2013 \"Ry Cooder was on guitar, Taj Mahal played guitar and sang.\"By late 1965 he was dating, and eventually married, Randy Wolfe's recently divorced mother, Bernice Pearl, and formed the Red Roosters with Wolfe, vocalist Jay Ferguson and bassist Mark Andes. They won a talent show and played a few gigs, but in 1966 the Cassidys moved to New York. It was there that Jimi Hendrix gave Randy his \"California\" sobriquet, but failed to convince his mother and stepfather to let the 15 year-old accompany him to London. The next year Cassidy, his new wife and California returned to Los Angeles, where they recruited pianist John Locke before teaming up with Ferguson and Andes again.Originally known as Spirits Rebellious, after a book by the mystic Kahlil Gibran, a favourite of the flower-power generation, they had become Spirit by the time they signed to Ode Records, the label started by Lou Adler. He produced Spirit's eponymous 1968 debut album, which made the US Top 40 and contained the atmospheric, finger-picking instrumental \"Taurus\", which inspired \"Stairway To Heaven\" by Led Zeppelin, who shared the bill with Spirit several times in 1969. The success of \"I Got A Line On You\" helped The Family That Plays Together, the second album, whose title referenced the Cassidy-California relationship and the fact that the group lived communally in Topanga Canyon, into the Top 30.Spirit then participated in the film Model Shop, directed in the US by Jacques The Umbrellas Of Cherbourg Demy, who had seen Spirit in a club and considered them ideal for his attempt to capture the aftermath of the Summer of Love. But he spoke no English, the group no French. The fraught project failed to capitalise on the star pairing of Anouk Aim\u00e9e, the leading lady of Claude Lelouch's Man And A Woman, and Gary Lockwood, fresh from 2001: A Space Odyssey, and Spirit's mostly instrumental score was only issued in full in 2005. Nevertheless, Clear Spirit, their third album, and the ominous single \"1984\", made the US charts and they enlisted Neil Young producer David Briggs for Dr Sardonicus, arguably their finest and most focused release.Ferguson and Andes left to form Jo Jo Gunne in 1971, and after California had a horse-riding accident Cassidy and Locke added Al and John Staehely and recorded the much-maligned Feedback. In 1972 Cassidy and California worked on the Kapt Kopter And The (Fabulous) Twirlybirds album, touring Europe and appearing on The Old Grey Whistle Test in 1973.Now a power trio with bassist Barry Keene, they recaptured former glories on the critically acclaimed 1975 albums Spirit of '76 \u2013 which included Hendrix and Bob Dylan covers \u2013 and Son Of Spirit, before reuniting with Locke and Andes for Farther Along, their last release to make the US charts. Cassidy and California recorded a further six albums and remained a popular concert draw in the US, Germany and Britain. The guitarist drowned in 1997 while rescuing his son from a riptide off an Hawaiian island.From the mid-'70s, when Cassidy wasn't gigging, hosting drum clinics or lecturing about the perils of the music industry, he acted, appearing in the TV series General Hospital and films like 2010. He died of cancer.Edward Claude Cassidy, drummer, songwriter and actor: born Illinois 4 May 1923; twice married (one daughter); died San Jose, California 6 December 2012.","It's not unknown for ageing divas of the silver screen to get hitched to men half their age. For an actress to marry a toyboy without appearing at the wedding, does seem rather peculiar, however.But Italian screen legend Gina Lollobrigida, 85, claims she is pressing charges against an ex-flame who \"married\" her without her knowing to get his hands on her inheritance. The actress said Spanish businessman Francisco Javier Rigau R\u00e0fols, who was 44 when the two were together in 2006-7, swindled a court into making him the recipient of her estate.\"I may have been conned by Javier, a vile person who married me by proxy in Spain without my knowledge and without my consent in order to inherit my estate after my death,\" said the 1950s sex symbol, best known for her role as the seductive queen in Solomon and Sheba.Lollobrigida told authorities in Rome that it was she who was seduced and betrayed, though, when Rigau conned her into signing documents that gave him power of attorney over her. Thus armed, he popped over to Barcelona to register the couple as spouses, according to reports in the Italian newspapers.Lollobrigida said legal documents published online indicate the wedding was celebrated on 29 November, 2010 in the presence of eight witnesses. She said: \"International investigations will take place because I want to shed light on this squalid affair and all the people involved.\"Lollobrigida's agent, Andrea Piazzolla, was reported as saying that Rigau had performed similar cons in the past.","Rockers Muse have signed up to perform as the headline act at this year's War Child Brit Awards Concert.The gig takes place two nights before the Brits music awards bash and marks the start of charity War Child's 20th anniversary.Muse, who wrote and recorded \"Survival\", last year's official Olympic Games song, are nominated for best British Group and British Live Act at February's Brits, where War Child will get a Special Recognition gong.Frontman Matt Bellamy said: \"We are proud to have a continuing association with War Child, who have been doing amazing work over the last 20 years.\"It's great to see their efforts being recognised at this year's Brits and we are really looking forward to playing this special show for them.\"The Brit Awards Concerts have raised more than \u00a3600,000 in the last four years, with performances from Coldplay, The Killers, Blur, Kasabian, Ed Sheeran and Mark Ronson.All proceeds will go towards War Child's work with children in war zones around the world.Ben Knowles, the charity's director of fundraising and music, said: \"This year is a special one for War Child and we're delighted to welcome one of the world's biggest and best live bands play for us to launch our 20th anniversary year and celebrate the important award we are winning.\"Stadium-filling trio Muse have released six studio albums, selling more than 15 million copies worldwide.The London gig, which will feature another act yet to be announced, takes place at the 02 Shepherd's Bush Empire on 18 February.PA","Patty Andrews, the last surviving member of popular The Andrews Sisters singing trio of the 1940s and 1950s, has died in California at the age of 94, her spokesman said yesterday.Alan Eichler said Andrews died of natural causes at her home in the Northridge area of Los Angeles.Patty Andrews was the youngest of the threesome who made up The Andrews Sisters, whose tight harmonies with \"Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy\" and \"Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree\" were hits.The Andrews Sisters sold more than 75 million records and became household names in the 1940s when they entertained World War Two troops in Africa, the United States and Europe.The sisters specialized in swing and played with some of the best-known big bands of the era, including those led by Glen Miller, Benny Goodman and Tommy Dorsey.They also appeared in 16 films, including roles alongside Bud Abbott and Lou Costello in \"Buck Privates\" and \"Hold that Ghost,\" and with Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in \"Road to Rio.\"Born in Minnesota, the sisters started their careers by performing in local talent shows and moved to California after finding fame. LaVerne Andrews died of cancer in 1967, and Maxene Andrews died in 1995 of a heart attack.Reuters","Ron Jeremy, one of the few porn industry figures to become a mainstream pop culture star, is fighting for his life in hospital today after suffering a heart aneurysm.According to his manager, the 59-year-old drove himself to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles yesterday morning after suffering severe chest pains.Mike Esterman said: \u201cHe just felt chest pains, like a very heavy weight\u2026 He is being worked on for an aneurysm near his heart.\u201dHe added that the emergency surgery \u201cwent smoothly,\u201d adding that Jeremy \u201cis now resting with complete privacy and no visitors.\u201dMr Jeremy, who has starred in over 2,000 adult films, became a mainstream star by appearing on the American reality television series \u201cThe Surreal Life\u201d in 2004, and by being featured in an advertisement by animal-rights advocates PETA.In a Twitter posting on Wednesday on his official account, Mr Jeremy's management said, \u201cPlease keep Ron in your thoughts and prayers for a speedy recovery.\u201dNicknamed the \u201cHedgehog\u201d for his short and hirsute body and known for wearing a large moustache, Jeremy\u2019s memoir, \u201cThe Hardest (Working) Man in Showbiz,\u201d was published in 2007.","Beyonce has gone on the record about her celebrated performance at President Obama's second inauguration which was subsequently mired in accusations that she was lip synching. But before admitting anything she proved to reporters that she could sing live.To gathered press in New Orleans the singer belted out a live rendition of \"The Star Spangled Banner\" proving just 24 hours before she is due to perform live at the Super Bowl that she can do it.Beyonce went on to admit that she did \"lip sync\" the national anthem on US Inauguration Day, singing live along with a pre-recorded tape instead of the US Marine band.\"I practise until my feet bleed and I did not have time to rehearse with the orchestra. Due to no proper sound check, I did not feel comfortable taking a risk,\" she told press.\"It was about the president and the inauguration, and I wanted to make him and my country proud, so I decided to sing along with my pre-recorded track, which is very common in the music industry. And I'm very proud of my performance.\"The appearance was her first live performance since giving birth to her daughter Blue Ivy a year ago.Beyonce described the experience as \"emotional\" and said she was a \"perfectionist\" which is why she felt more comfortable performing with a backing track rather than a live band.It was Beyonce's first public acknowledgement of the controversy in the two weeks since a spokeswoman for the US Marine first told news outlets that the \"Single Ladies\" star \"decided to go with the pre-recorded music at the last minute\" and that, to her knowledge, she was not actually singing the anthem.The US Marine band later backtracked, saying in a statement: \"Regarding Ms. Knowles's vocal performance, no one in the Marine Band is in a position to assess whether it was live or pre-recorded.\"The statement said the band and Beyonce, whose surname is Knowles-Carter, had no chance to rehearse together before Monday's inauguration \"so it was determined that a live performance by the band was ill-advised for such a high-profile event.\"","In a cut-throat music industry, where even the biggest stars nervously await their weekly chart position, Andria Vidler expounds a heretical philosophy.\u201cBeing No 1 isn\u2019t necessarily always the right thing,\u201d suggests the chief executive of EMI, the famous record company behind chart-toppers from The Beatles to Coldplay that is now facing a tearful break-up.\u201cYes, we observe what our competitors are doing but we don\u2019t do things just to beat them. We focus on the best route for the artist,\u201d said Vidler, 46, who joined EMI in 2009 after a career as a senior executive working at the BBC and commercial radio.\u201cAbout three years ago as a team we said we\u2019re not going to chase market share. We\u2019re going to take on and prioritise a few artists. We\u2019re actually offering a service to our artists. I know some of our competitors might have a different approach. But it\u2019s worked for EMI.\u201dIt\u2019s a laissez-faire approach to chart success which might prompt raised eyebrows in the rival record giants, which are visible from the penthouse suite at EMI\u2019s Kensington offices, where Vidler is speaking.She cites a recent example. \u201cArtists have careers that have light and shade to them. Damon Albarn\u2019s Dr Dee soundtrack album (to the Blur singer\u2019s opera) was an amazing piece of work. But it was about ensuring as many people heard it as possible, not necessarily where it came in the album charts.\u201dAt first glance, it might seem that the strategy has not worked very well. Universal, the world\u2019s biggest music company, swallowed up the debt-laden EMI in a \u00a31.2 bn deal last year.\u00a0 However, the EMI that Universal has acquired is a revived on which, under Vidler\u2019s leadership and despite her professed coolness towards market share, has improved its performance on that measure from 10.9 to 15 per cent. Obvious successes include the Scottish singer-songwriter Emeli Sand\u00e9, a ubiquitous face during 2012 whose debut album was the UK\u2019s only million-seller last year.Universal will not be getting the whole EMI stable, however. In order to placate EU regulators, it has been forced to sell off one of EMI\u2019s crown jewels, the lucrative Parlophone label, home to Blur, Coldplay, Lily Allen, Tempah, Kylie Minogue and Conor Maynard, the teen star tipped to become \u201cBritain\u2019s Bieber\u201d.The move has unnerved some of Parlophone\u2019s artists with Dave Rowntree, the Blur drummer, expressing his reservations at becoming a pawn in a corporate industry takeover. But Vidler, who is over-seeing the sale, with Warners, Sony and the Spice Girls impresario Simon Fuller among the bidders, is keen to reassure him.\u201cI understand Dave Rowntree\u2019s perspective,\u201d says Vidler, who hopes to move with Parlophone to its new home.\u201cArtists aren\u2019t pawns. They worry that they have built longstanding relationships with teams here and that can all be put at risk. But despite the disruption, we\u2019ve had artists sign and re-sign with us because we\u2019ve had phenomenal success. We must be doing something right.\u201dVidler, a \u201cmedia chick\u201d who became managing director of the Capital and Magic FM radio stations before moving to EMI, is a lone female representative at the record company top table. \u201cShocking, isn\u2019t it?\u201d she says. \u201cIt\u2019s puzzling when you have women in high-profile positions across other media companies.\u201dYet she is firmly against any suggestion that women should be given a leg up simply to address the gender gap. \u201cI personally don\u2019t believe in an approach that says you need a certain percentage of women or that you need to dictate that women should be on certain boards,\u201d she says.\u201cI don\u2019t believe women should be given a job purely because they\u2019re women. I think you need to prove you\u2019re the right person for the job. I get a bit distracted by that gender agenda.\u201dSo does Vidler, a rugby-loving, married mother, believe that women are less interested in the all-night parties and excessive lifestyles which traditionally allowed male music executives to demonstrate their commitment to the cause? \u201cI don\u2019t think people get promoted because they stay out late,\u201d she says. But then she adds: \u201cI go to lots of gigs and I\u2019m happy to stay out late.\u201dBut where are the female superstar DJs, or studio producers? \u201cThere are lots of superstar female artists and fantastic female managers,\u201d counters Vidler, who says she believes that female mentoring is the best way of elevating more talented women to the boardroom.She adds: \u201cWomen frequently have to spin more than one plate at one time. Some women have stronger EQs [emotional intelligence] than men. But that\u2019s not to say no men have strong EQs.\u201dMeanwhile, one woman Vidler would like to see more of is Kate Bush, whose back catalogue forms part of the Parlophone sale. Vidler\u2019s triumphs include negotiating an agreement with Bush to recommit to EMI. With seemingly every big name of previous eras making a comeback at present, could Bush be persuaded to return to live performance after more than 30 years? \u201cShe might. It would be lovely but Kate will do what she wants to do. The more people ask her to do something, the more she\u2019ll tend to pull back.\u201dIn the meantime, Vidler, who grew up worshipping the Bay City Rollers and Donny Osmond, is working with another comeback kid, David Bowie, and his team on a major rerelease programme of the star\u2019s classic 70s albums, which may include a documentary film.She is \u201cvery excited\u201d about a new Damon Albarn solo album, which the Blur singer is currently working on, and doesn\u2019t rule out new material from that band either. \u201cYou never know,\u201d is all she will say.On a more contemporary footing, a second Tinie Tempah album is set to capitalise on huge interest in the Plumstead rapper in the US. So despite the disruptive background of the Parlophone sale, it is business as usual, almost.Yet behind Vidler, on the penthouse balcony, sits a giant rusting sculpture of Nipper the Dog and his gramophone, an appropriate symbol for HMV\u2019s collapse and a reminder that the industry in which she works is going through turbulent times.Digital sales of music, video and games exceeded the \u00a31bn mark for the first time in 2012, an 11 per cent rise on 2011, while physical sales of CDs, DVDs and Blu-Ray dropped by 18 per cent.She is simultaneously unsentimental about the iconic chain\u2019s demise and upbeat about the future of high- street music retail in general. \u201cI\u2019m relatively confident that there will be a specialist entertainment and music store on the high street in some guise,\u201d she says. \u201cI enjoy browsing and trying out new things.\u201dThe record industry\u2019s future, she believes, is a combination of digital downloads, video and streaming services along with physical offerings for hardcore fans, such as Blur\u2019s \u00a3130 career-spanning box set. But will those stores of the future carry the name, HMV? \u201cWho knows.\u201dAnother musical name beloved of previous generations is the Now! That\u2019s What I Call Music brand, which has been going for 30 years but is now also up for sale from EMI and facing an uncertain future.Vidler would love to see it continue, but does not guarantee it. \u201cThe 2012 Christmas Now! was the biggest-seller since the middle of the 80s. We\u2019d love to see it remain with whoever purchases Parlophone because the brand still has huge potential.\u201dAt this month\u2019s Brit awards, Vidler will wave goodbye to her prot\u00e9g\u00e9 Sand\u00e9, pictured left,\u00a0 who now joins Universal.\u00a0\u00a0 Was Vidler responsible for Sand\u00e9\u2019s presence at practically every major televised event last year, from the Olympic Opening Ceremony to the X Factor final?\u201cOf course there was a plot to raise her awareness to as many people as possible. But the fact that her album is still in the top 10 after a year shows that there are still people finding her,\u201d she says. It\u2019s one chart-topping feat which Vidler is keen to claim.On The Spot: Six QuestionsWhere was the last place you went for dinner?E&amp;O in Notting HillWhat was the last album you bought/listened to?Pines by A Fine Frenzy, the stage name for American singer-songwriter Alison Sudol.What was the last book you read?The Tipping Point: How Little Things Make a Big Difference by Malcolm GladwellWhat was the last gig/concert you attended?Gabrielle Aplin &amp; Conor Maynard at the Electric Ballroom, CamdenWhat was the last sporting event you attended?England vs Scotland rugby international at Twickenham on SaturdayWhat was the last film you saw?Les Mis\u00e9rables \u2013 \u201cI bawled my eyes out\u201d"]},{"x":0.0626766075828467,"y":0.0768965227477265,"no_docs":14,"words":[{"prob":0.000119375141878997,"word":"time"},{"prob":5.84047368529989e-05,"word":"back"},{"prob":2.9442629644449e-05,"word":"life"},{"prob":1.26769330835001e-05,"word":"family"},{"prob":0.000302522108466485,"word":"house"},{"prob":7.36473381094985e-05,"word":"home"},{"prob":0.000139999922873974,"word":"don"}],"docs":["With speculation rife in Germany about the UK\u2019s imminent departure from Europe, royal princesses Beatrice and Eugenie were dispatched to Berlin today where they launched a last minute campaign to persuade Germans to visit and invest in Britain before it drifts off into the mid Atlantic.The sisters, aged 24 and 22, kicked off\u00a0 their \u201cGreat Britain Tour\u201d by driving one of\u00a0 the German car giant BMW\u2019s Minis through Berlin\u2019s landmark Brandenburg Gate today.In an attempt to lend a subtle British note to the car\u2019s German-financed origins, the Mini was painted with an all-over Union Jack.\u201cThe campaign is our national effort to get people to come to the United Kingdom and enjoy everything we have to offer,\u201d Princess Beatrice told a press conference held at Berlin\u2019s British Embassy, \u201cWe\u2019ve got so much we\u2019d love people around the world to come and enjoy \u2013 beautiful countryside, lively cities and some of the world\u2019s most wonderful museums,\u201d she added.The BMW Mini will tour Germany\u2019s 16 federal states over the coming months as part of\u00a0 the UK Government-sponsored \u201cGreat Britain\u201d campaign which aims to promote foreign tourism, trade and investment. \u201cThe Mini we are about to drive is just one example of the great things Britain and Germany can do together,\u201d Princess Beatrice claimed in a reference to BMW\u2019s Mini production plant in Oxford.German observers noted that the tour was being launched on the eve of David Cameron\u2019s anxiously awaited speech on Britain\u2019s future relationship with Europe and amid real fears in Germany that a many UK politicians and large sections of the public are bent on Britain leaving the EU.The princesses were said to have been personally invited to promote the tour by Mr Cameron. \u201cThey are the fifth and sixth in line for the throne and are now part of that group of royals who are willing to go out and lend their support to the UK,\u201d said a Foreign and Commonwealth Office spokesman.But it emerged today that their visit to Berlin was being funded entirely by their father, Prince Andrew, who through his former role as the UK\u2019s Special Representative for International Trade and Investment, is no stranger to\u00a0 promoting British interests himself, despite the criticism he invoked while doing the job.Prince Andrew held the unpaid position for ten years before stepping down in July 2011 after he was photographed walking through Central Park in New York with his close friend, the billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein who had just been released from prison for soliciting under aged girls.The Prince was accused of wasting taxpayers\u2019 money by staying in five star hotels and on chartering private jets\u00a0 which earned him the nickname \u201cAir Miles Andy\u201d. He was also accused of\u00a0 exploiting connections he developed with wealthy trading partners for his own ends. He sold his house for \u00a315 million - \u00a33 million\u00a0 more than the asking price- to an oil tycoon from Kazakhstan whom he joined on goose shooting excursions. The prince has denied any impropriety.Now out of the limelight himself, Prince Andrew is believed to have lobbied for his daughters to spearhead the launch of the \u201cGreat Britain\u201d campaign in Berlin. He is rumoured to have been fighting a \u201crear guard\u201d action to ensure that they represent the Royal Family more often in future.\u00a0 Today\u2019s Berlin campaign launch was their debut event.","One of the worst commercial decisions in history was made by Thomas Cadell, a London publisher, in November 1797. Cadell was new to the job. His father was a leading light in the publishing industry, a friend of Samuel Johnson and the publisher of Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Emperor; but the young Cadell was a tyro. So when he received a letter from one Rev George Austen, an unknown Hampshire clergyman, he wasn't impressed.The Rev Austen told him that he had \"in my possession a Manuscript Novel comprised in three Vols, about the length of Miss [Fanny] Burney's Evelina\" and entitled First Impressions. What, he asked, would it cost him to get it published, and how much might Cadell be prepared to pay for the copyright? The reply came with frankly insulting speed. Austen's letter was sent back with the words 'Declined by Return of Post' scrawled across the top.Like the Decca executive who turned down The Beatles in 1962 (saying \"guitar groups are on the way out\"), Cadell lived to regret his decision. For the Rev George had written on behalf of his daughter Jane, and the book First Impressions would eventually be published, 16 years later on 28 January 1813, with the title changed to Pride and Prejudice, one of the beacons of literary history. In the past 200 years, it has sold 20 million copies worldwide and never been out of print. Its first line is so well-known it's become a clich\u00e9. It is a truth universally acknowledged that Pride and Prejudice is the nation's favourite novel.The story of the Bennet family's adventures in the marriage market of the early 19th century has been adapted for TV and the big screen umpteen times (Greer Garson played Lizzie in 1940 against a surly Laurence Olivier as Darcy; Keira Knightley and Matthew Macfadyen played them most recently in 2005), but has proved weirdly adaptable to different cultures and performance genres. There's been a Bollywood version (Bride &amp; Prejudice), a Galilee-based Israeli TV mini-series, a Japanese comedy version (Hana Yori Dango), a Mormon-university update (Pride &amp; Prejudice: a Latter-Day Comedy), a Broadway musical version of First Impressions and a concept album.The book has been given dozens of metafictional rewrites and sequels (PD James wrote a murder mystery called Death Comes to Pemberley in 2011) including a notorious 'mash-up', Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, featuring cannibalism, ninjas and hordes of the walking undead. Lizzie Bennet has been given her own video blog (The Lizzie Bennet Diaries) and a TV mini-series, Lost in Austen, in which she swaps lives with a modern American woman, while Mr Darcy's side of the story has spawned a trilogy, by Pamela Aidan, called Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman and an octet of spin-off books by Abigail Reynolds that include To Conquer Mr Darcy and What Would Mr Darcy Do?.Jane Austen's publishing career began in 1810, when the publisher Thomas Egerton agreed to publish Sense and Sensibility \u2013 on commission, with Egerton holding the copyright. Jane's brother, Henry, and his wife (and cousin) Eliza jointly paid the printing costs. When the debut novel hit the streets on 31 October 1811, a newspaper advertisement coyly called it 'A New Novel by a Lady'. It was well reviewed, and much discussed in polite society, and netted its author \u00a3140. Egerton offered Jane \u00a3110 for the copyright to Pride and Prejudice.It came out in January 1813, price 18 shillings, and was an instant hit. Richard Sheridan, the playwright, called it one of the cleverest things he'd ever read. George Henry Lewes, the critic and long-term partner of George Eliot, declared that he \"would rather have written Pride and Prejudice, or Tom Jones, than any of the Waverley Novels,\" which was high praise at the time. A literary acquaintance of Jane's brother, Henry, assured him that it was \"much too clever to be the work of a woman\". Jane Austen herself stayed at home in Chawton, closeted with her mother, taking it in turns to read chapters of the book aloud to their poor spinster neighbour, Miss Benn. But her delight in what she called \"my own darling Child\" is evident in a letter she wrote to her sister Cassandra, which includes this tongue-in-cheek criticism:\"The work is rather too light &amp; bright &amp; sparkling; \u2013 it wants shade; \u2013 it wants to be stretched out here &amp; there with a long Chapter \u2013 of sense if it could be had, if not of solemn specious nonsense \u2013 about something unconnected with the story; an essay on Writing, a critique on Walter Scott, or the history of Buonaparte \u2013 or anything that would form a contrast &amp; bring the reader with increased delight to the playfulness and Epigrammatism of the general stile\u2026\"What events, what concatenation of local circumstances, prompted her to write Pride and Prejudice \u2013 or First Impressions \u2013 in a stunning nine-month burst of activity between October 1796 and summer 1797? Many people attribute it to her meeting, and falling in love, with a young Irishman called Tom Lefroy. He and Jane were the same age \u2013 20 \u2013 and met at a ball. He had completed a degree in Dublin, and was going to study for the Bar in London. At Christmas 1795, he had come to Hampshire to visit his aunt and uncle Lefroy at Ashe parsonage. And being handsome and charming as well as clever, he was invited everywhere. In the earliest of Jane's letters to survive, we read her breathless descriptions of a ball at Manydown House, the attentiveness of \"this gentlemanlike, good-looking, pleasant young man\" and how she gave \"lessons\" to the other dancers in showing a particular interest in a partner.Displaying what Bridget Jones would later call \"mention-itis\", Jane brings up Lefroy's name again and again, mentions her visits to his uncle's parsonage, and rather scandalously invites Cassandra to imagine what they got up to, \"everything most profligate and shocking in the way of dancing and sitting down together\". She breaks off the letter to answer the door \u2013 and finds it is Mr Lefroy coming a-calling with a chaperone.In all this activity \u2013 the ball, the dancing, the flirting, the (we assume) kissing, the writing, the visiting, the dreaming \u2013 Jane is as much the heroine as the spectator, says Claire Tomalin, Austen's most sympathetic biographer: \"Jane is clearly writing as the heroine of her own youthful story, living for herself the short period of power, excitement and adventure that might come to a young woman when she was thinking of choosing a husband\". But, of course, it was a Christmas romance that led nowhere. Their mutual attraction was evidently well-known locally; and Tom Lefroy was sent away before things became serious. There was an economic impulse behind his banishment: he was expected to become a barrister and the family breadwinner, and could not risk his life by marrying the daughter of a penniless clergyman. Jane never saw him after this Christmas visit.But from then on, the feelings released inside her by this moment in love's spotlight also released her as a writer. \"From now on,\" writes Tomalin, \"she carried in her own flesh and blood, and not just gleaned from books and plays, the knowledge of sexual vulnerability: of what it is to be entranced by the dangerous stranger; to hope, and to feel the blood warm; to wince, to withdraw; to long for what you are not going to have and had better not mention. Her writing becomes informed by this knowledge, running like a dark undercurrent beneath the comedy.\"Though Jane Austen was 37 when Pride and Prejudice was published, she was just 20 when she invented Lizzie Bennet \u2013 who is also, and forever, 20. It's easy to forget that the book concerns a sorority of teenagers and a succession of potential suitors \u2013 Bingley, Darcy, Wickham, Colonel Fitzwilliam \u2013 mostly in their twenties. Mrs Bennet has been portrayed in successive adaptations as a fusspot matron of mature years, but is barely into her forties, an immature, ditzy romantic who embarrasses her girls with her vulgarity. We can infer that Mr Bennet married her, without much thought to the future, when she was a sexy young minx and he was dazzled by her. Although a succession of adaptations has given the book a reputation for bonnets, minuets and genteel behaviour, the book is all about sex \u2013 and, of course, about the endless niceties of civilised discourse, the displays of accomplishments and minute calibrations of economic value that must be negotiated before the characters can get their hands on each other.While the book proceeds in a brisk and brilliant succession of encounters, alternately comic and dramatic \u2013 Mr Collins's proposal, Lizzie's response, her father's reaction, Jane and Mr Bingley, Jane's illness, Mrs Bennet's hysterics, Wickham's lies to Lizzie about Darcy, Lydia and Mr Wickham \u2013 there's one apparently false note: Darcy. Has a supposedly romantic hero ever seemed less agreeable, less attractive or less charming? At a dance, he tells Bingley, in everyone's hearing, that it would be a punishment for him to dance with any of the ladies present. What, Bingham asks, about Lizzie Bennet? Darcy regards our lively, clever, witty heroine and says, \"She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me.\"This is not 'pride'. It's rudeness, bad manners, the words of (let us not mince words here) a stuck-up fool. We know he is \"well-bred\" \u2013 can breeding make one so socially maladroit? He is hopeless at conversation. He is rude to Miss Bingley. He is awkwardly icy with Lizzie. Even when he finally proposes to her, he's unforgiveably rude about her mother's vulgarity, her own \"inferiority\" and how degrading it would be for him to marry her. He admits, without apology, trying to derail the romance between Lizzie's sister Jane and Bingley. The reader may be forgiven for wondering when any recognisably heroic virtues will appear.Yet in the second half of the book, he changes beyond recognition. He's discovered at his mansion, Pemberley, being charming, attentive and kind. We hear about his man-of-action heroics in persuading Wickham to marry Lydia. What has brought about this transformation?Andrew Davies, who adapted the book for BBC TV in 1995, offered, at the time, a rather shocking analysis of the urgency of Darcy's feelings. From the start, says Davies, Darcy has been wrestling with a strong sexual attraction to Lizzie, which has upset all his notions about marriage. Must he really trade his fortune, his house and his future just for the pleasure of parting the socially inferior Lizzie from her foundation garments? It's when he decides the deal is worth it, that he becomes heroic.Davies identifies the turning point: \"There's quite a well-known scene when Elizabeth, because she's worried that her sister is ill, walks and runs across muddy fields to Netherfield. She happens to bump into Mr Darcy just as he's coming out of the house, and he finds that he responds very well to her looks. So I wrote in a stage direction: 'Darcy is surprised to find that he has an instant erection'. I felt obliged to add, 'I don't mean we need to focus on his trousers, just that it's what should be going through the actor's mind'. Darcy's obviously turned on by this heart-throbbing, muddy, warm girl.\"The book's core, however, is Lizzie Bennet, so sprightly, so confident, so morally centred, such a shrewd judge of character. The arc of the narrative sees her learning to back her judgements, to make up her mind independently of others \u2013 and to learn a lesson in how the world works. It's hard for her to accept that Darcy is right about her family's low status, and the social unsuitability of their union. But in the book's climactic scene, when Lady Catherine De Bourgh explains to Lizzie why she should not presume to marry Darcy (her nephew), pride flashes a sudden fin in Lizzie's heart and she does just that.Readers everywhere have cheered at this happy outcome. Successive generations have closed the book regretfully, sorry to leave the chattering, fretful, quarrelsome, scheming, romancing community of the novel behind. And some have pondered the paradox that such a legendarily romantic work should be centrally concerned with money, wills, land and great estates. Among them was the poet WH Auden who, in his \"Letter to Lord Byron\" (1937) wrote:\"You could not shock her more than she shocks me,Beside her, Joyce seems innocent as grass.It makes me most uncomfortable to seeAn English spinster of the middle classDescribe the amorous effects of 'brass',Reveal so frankly and with such sobrietyThe economic basis of society.\"","So you think that tickets for the London Olympics were over-subscribed? That was nothing on getting a seat to watch BBC1's Miranda being filmed. One week, according to Miranda Hart's co-star, Sally Phillips, who plays Miranda's friend, \"monster idiot\" and \"language disease\", Tilly, there were 16,000 applicants for just 300 places \u2013 and a large proportion of these were teenage girls.\"She [Miranda] is greeted when she goes to book signings like she's One Direction,\" says Phillips. \"Teenage girls lying down on thef floor vomiting\u2026 it's really very extreme\u2026 and it is very good.\"Good? How so? \"Miranda's a wonderful model of girl friendship, I think,\" says Phillips. \"The model must be a big relief if you're 15. She [Miranda] goes on a date and the way that it is plotted is that she meets the guy for two seconds and then unpacks it for four minutes with Sarah Hadland (who plays her joke-shop colleague, Stevie) and then you don't even see the date and she unpacks it again for another four minutes with Sarah Hadland. It's all about the relationship with her mates.\"Teenage girls are being exposed to pornography much earlier,\" continues Phillips, taking her theme in an unexpected direction. \"Someone was telling me that at their child's school, the girls are saying that they are gay to get out of the sexual demands of the teenage boys. In that rather brutal environment, what a wonderful jukebox of joy that relationship model must be.\"I was looking forward to meeting Phillips, having always liked her dimply screen persona and found her highly amusing, whether in Smack the Pony, or I'm Alan Partridge, or the Bridget Jones movies, but being told by the BBC PR two minutes before our interview that she wouldn't talk about her children \u2013 or more precisely, her seven-year-old son, Ollie, who was born with Down syndrome \u2013 or her faith (Phillips is a practising Christian) was discombobulating.Not wanting to discuss Ollie is entirely understandable, of course, as she herself puts it succinctly: \"There seems something vaguely unsavoury about talking about my son with Down syndrome when promoting a show\". I was however curious about why she shouldn't want to speak about her religious convictions.\"I suppose you ask yourself why we are sitting here and what it's for,\" she says after a long silence. \"My personal experience is that about 60 per cent\u2026 the majority have some form of violent reaction to it. So is it wise? Who does it benefit? You make your own assumptions if you read 'Sally Phillips is a Christian'. You'll think 'Oh she's definitely homophobic or anti-woman bishops'\u2026 I mean, are we going to have an hour-long discussion about exactly where I stand on certain doctrinal issues? No, because we're promoting a sitcom.\"Well, that's sort of what we're doing \u2013 although Miranda hardly needs promoting. My side of the bargain is surely to give readers an insight into what makes Sally Phillips tick. \"It's not that I'm ashamed of it,\" she says. \"I tell people that I'm a Christian, but I don't think it's giving an insight into who I am or what I'm about. If I'd written a film \u2013 and one day I will \u2013 where Christianity is an essential part of it, then it would be a much more appropriate thing to discuss.\"In fact, Phillips turns out to be much more straight-talking than the late-imposed preconditions to our interview had suggested, and it would be a shame if she ever acquired what she calls a \"mouth-gate\". With a first from Oxford, she's obviously highly intelligent, her answers always thoughtful, as when I express to having been surprised when Miranda's upper-middle-class milieu first found a mass audience. \"I would say exactly the opposite,\" she says. \"We've got Etonians running the country\u2026 for some reason that's acceptable to people\u2026 we've got Downton Abbey, massive, and it occurred to me that it's quite similar to the screwball era when women were allowed to be funny because they were all heiresses. Obviously Miranda is very funny, but maybe 10 years ago she wouldn't have got her own series. For some reason being posh is all right.\"Phillips herself claims to be more d\u00e9class\u00e9 than posh, thanks to an itinerant childhood following her father and his job as an executive with British Airways. Can she rattle off the countries she and her two brothers lived in before settling back in England at the age of 13? \"Hong Kong, Zambia, Brunei, Beirut, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Bahrain, Australia, Italy,\" she rattles. \"It wasn't a type of Raj upbringing. My mum's from Yorkshire and my parents aren't snotty or posh \u2013 they're very hard workers, both of them.\"Her father, Tim, became the chairman of the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club (home of Wimbledon tennis) when he retired from BA; her mother, Elizabeth, a tough-sounding, well-regarded head teacher \u2013 currently at St Marylebone Girls' School in London (a photograph of her on the school website shows a strong resemblance to her daughter) \u2013 had her first job at Feltham Community College. \"It felt like a feeder for the Feltham Young Offenders' Institute,\" says Phillips. \"She came back beaten up and I remember just crying and saying, 'Stop doing that'.\"Phillips herself was sent to a rather more genteel boarding school in Gloucestershire, where she failed to fit in. \"I wasn't a member of the pony club, and I didn't have any clothing from Benetton or any shoes from Hobbs, so that made me unusual. The question is whether it's good or bad to be unusual in that environment, and now I think it was great.\"She had a rather more congenial time at New College, Oxford, where she got a first in Italian and started writing and performing comedy for the Oxford Revue, with the likes of Al Murray, Stewart Lee and Andy Riley, the creator of the Bunny Suicides series. \"It attracted the geeks\u2026 the real comedy spods.\"After university, Phillips paid her dues at countless Edinburgh Festivals. \"It was a macho world,\" she recalls. \"I definitely internalised the idea that women aren't funny. I remember one year leafing through the programme and going, 'There's loads of girls going up on their own\u2026 maybe I should do that' and the guy that If was writing with/for at the time said, 'What would you call it, The Sally Phillips Experience? And he laughed for about 10 minutes, and I joined in laughing and then went into another room and cried.\"In 1995, she teamed up with Simon Pegg and Jessica Hynes on the regional ITV sketch show Six Pairs of Pants, reuniting with Pegg four years later on the short-lived sitcom Hippies, set in an Oz-like 1960s magazine and written by Father Ted creators Graham Linehan and Arthur Mathews. But by now she had broken through \u2013 first playing the giggly receptionist in I'm Alan Partridge and then with Fiona Allen and Doon Mackichan in the ground-breaking, all-female Channel 4 sketch show Smack the Pony. \"I work now with women 10 or 15 years younger who all grew up watching it,\" she says. \"As a teenage girl it wouldn't occur to you now that women aren't funny. It's a definite career choice and there are loads more girls. There really weren't any then.\"Phillips is hoping to reunite with Allen and Mackichan in a new sitcom called Stick or Twist, about three sisters whose marriages are in crisis, although she's still waiting, after nearly a year, for the BBC to give it the green light. \"It feels like the system has shut down a bit,\" she says. \"TV feels quite constipated and the thing I find particularly difficult is the branding of the channels where it's not 'Is it a good script?' but 'Is it a BBC2 script?'.\"Stick or Twist sounds like a timely idea, for as Phillips says, a propos of Smack the Pony: \"It did change things but I think there are still some things that can be changed. Middle-aged women on telly is a bit of a hot topic \u2013 before we were 27 to 37 and now we're 40 to 50. You do notice as you get older\u2026 you go past 35 and suddenly you're playing baddies. I get offered people who get killed in slasher movies. Where's that come from \u2013 haven't they read about me being a Christian?\"It makes a change from being forever cast as 'the best friend', a process that continues with Miranda, but which began with the two Bridget Jones movies, in which she played the wine-guzzling singleton's pal, Shazzer. \"Never the lead, always the best friend,\" she says of the offers that came in post-Bridget Jones, adding that she can't enlighten me as to the progress of a long-promised new sequel. \"All I know is that I was booked, the dates were pushed and pushed and then they called it off but they said we still intend to make it. That's all I know.\"We got on very well,\" she says of her co-star Ren\u00e9e Zellweger. \"We were in touch for a bit but we were quite honest about it \u2013 she's a massive movie star in LA and I was pregnant with Ollie on the second film. When I had Ollie we talked a lot and she was incredibly kind when he was born, but you know, you're just aware when that happens that your life is going to take a slightly different path.\"Phillips isn't interested in joining Zellweger in America \u2013 or rather isn't interested enough, even though she retains a Hollywood agent. \"What attracts me about over there is that TV drama and TV comedy is the best in the world, but it seems like a very brutalising process. Every spring there are these planes full of British actors \u2013 it's like sardine-tins full of British hope \u2013 and they all go and sit on beaches and think it's fantastic for a couple of weeks and then get fantastically depressed and go on juice diets and come back two stone lighter and talking nonsense.\"The last time I saw Eddie Izzard he said, 'You've got to come, you've got to come, but you've got to want it more than blood' and I really had no idea what he was talking about. I thought, I don't think I do want it more than blood \u2013 what does that mean? Does it mean I want it more than my family?\"Her family includes her three sons and husband Andrew, who works in shipping, and not, as the cuttings state, in IT. \"The things they've printed have been hilarious,\" says Phillips. \"He's also been a Bible teacher, which I enjoyed. His family have enjoyed taunting him about the Bible teacher bit and his colleagues have enjoyed taunting him about the IT bit. He's a total techno fool like me. We can neither get anything to work.\"The cuts also say that Andrew is Spanish \u2013 unusual Iberian nomenclature, I suggest. \"He's eurotrash\u2026 No, I shouldn't say that \u2013 he's a mixture. He's Spanish, Italian, Scottish, German, Jewish mix. His first language is Spanish but he came back here when he was 13\u2026 that's the glaring similarity between us.\"They live in Richmond, an easy commute for BBC Television Centre \u2013 where those teenage girls are queuing around the block to watch Miranda being recorded \u2013 and Broadcasting House in central London, where her Radio 4 comedy Clare in the Community, in which Phillips plays a jargon-spewing social worker, is made. But it was Bush House on the Strand, until this summer the home of the BBC World Service, which inspired the most reverence in Phillips when she visited. \"Growing up, we had the World Service on 24 hours a day, so the first time I walked into Bush House to do a radio show I was really over-awed. Home of the World Service\u2026 'Broadcasting from Bush House', all of that\u2026\". How could Hollywood ever compete?'Miranda' continues on Mondays on BBC1, and 'Clare in the Community' continues on Wednesdays on Radio 4","Some of the young men who survived the bloodiest day for British soldiers in Afghanistan, when five died and ten were wounded, are speaking for the first time about their battle to conquer painful memories.Less than 30 soldiers from 2 Rifles [9 Platoon, C Company] went out on patrol in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand Province on 10 July 2009.More than half were killed or wounded by improvised explosive devices (IEDS) in what remains the worst casualty toll for a British foot patrol during the war in Afghanistan.Kevin Holt was barely in his 20s when he went on the patrol that would change him forever. The 24-year-old already has the stare of someone who has seen far too much.\u00a0For the former rifleman, nicknamed \u2018Holty\u2019, survived. But his best friend, 18-year-old James Backhouse, didn\u2019t. In the aftermath, one soldier who rushed to the scene mistook Kevin\u2019s tears of grief for hysterical laughter.Despite being caught up in the explosion, he continued clearing routes with his metal detector \u2013 his bravery saw him mentioned in despatches. But he says: \u201cI think all the people in the platoon deserve it more than me... everyone should have got one.\u201dKevin made it back with his body in one piece, but his mind was broken.After the tour he was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and left the army in January 2011. \u201cI had mood swings. Anger, anger problems I smashed up my room.\u00a0 Smashed tv up, everything and I don\u2019t even know why.\u201dNow living in Doncaster, Kevin\u2019s eyes well up as he confesses to \u201ctaking things day to day\u201d with no plans for the future.Describing his sense of isolation, he says: \u201cI feel more alone since I got out than I did when I was in\u2026.Sometimes negative thoughts like overwhelm in me in my head and that.\u00a0 I could go for days without talking to anybody or just seeing anybody.\u201dHis struggle, and that of other survivors from the patrol, to readjust to life back in \u2018civvy street\u2019 is told in a new film \u2013 Haunted by Helmand - being broadcast on BBC 3 tomorrow.The young men featured are part of a wave of returning veterans traumatised by their experiences of war, with hundreds of soldiers returning from Afghanistan each year needing treatment for mental health problems.Matthew Ramdeen left the army six months afterwards. Back home in London, he struggled to walk down the street for fear of being caught in another bomb last. \u201cWalking down the street, you think \u2018Am I going to set off an IED with every step I take?\u201d He doesn\u2019t want to dwell on what happened in Afghanistan \u201cbecause you can take yourself back there very quickly... and it\u2019s a constant battle to forget it.\u201dTwo years after the explosion, and living back at home, he went off the rails. His mother Jo recalls how \u201cThe anger just came out of nowhere\u201d and he would punch doors and start fights with his brother.She found herself worried sick about what he might do: \u201cHas he killed his brother, has he walked out in the street and killed someone?\u201d Fortunately, the anger eventually passed thanks to anti-anxiety drugs and counselling.Looking to the future, Matthew wants to be a fighter pilot and is now in the third year of an engineering course. He laughs as he says: \u201cThe future\u2019s bright.\u201dPeter Sherlock, 24, had not been out on the patrol \u2013 having come down with heatstroke the day before - but saw his dead and injured friends brought back. One was his best friend, Danny Simpson, 20.On his return to Britain, he turned to drink to block out his memories suffered nightmares every night for three years. \u201cYou wake up with quite a jump and quite a fright...a bit of a sweat on sometimes, so sleeping can be pretty rough.\u201dHe has only recently started to get through some nights without waking up in terror.Now out of the army, he lives near Southampton, where he works as a painter and decorator.Peter has the names of the five who died tattooed alongside a cross on his back which he calls a \u201cliving memorial.\u201dReferring to \u201cthe nasty day\u201d he says: \u201cYou could never forget times like that. That\u2019s going to be with you for life.\u201dBut some, like 20-year-old rifleman Allan Arnold, could not live with it. He committed suicide in 2011 - unable to deal with the loss of one of his closest friends, William Aldridge, who was barely 18 when he was fatally injured in the IED blast - the youngest British soldier to die in Afghanistan.Allan\u2019s mother, Nicki, wears her son\u2019s army dog tag around her neck. She clutches it and fights to hold back tears as she remembers her son\u2019s torment. \u201cThe nightmares, the flashbacks, the memories, the loss, it was too much in the end for him to cope with. I suppose he saw it as his \u2013 the only way to get peace.\u201dPlatoon leader Lieutenant Alex Horsfall, who lost the lower half of one of his legs and most of a hand, left the army last year and now works for the Ministry of Defence.Although he cannot remember anything after the explosion, he will never forget the day that changed his life - and ended that of others. \u201cIt\u2019s a date that you actually remember more than your birthday because it\u2019s sort of three years \u2013 hey, I\u2019m alive \u2013 and at the same time it does come along with the deaths of five guys in the platoon.\u201d He has managed to recover from his injuries and now works for the Ministry of Defence, having left the army last year: \u201cLife\u2019s pretty much back to normal.\u00a0 You know, the human body\u2019s got a wonderful knack of telling you to sort of get a grip and telling you to move on.\u201dThe 29-year-old, from London, keeps in touch with the men he commanded and organised a reunion last year. \u201cGetting everyone together is quite a good soothing way to sort of deal with things like post-traumatic stress, being able to talk amongst your friends who were there who know what you\u2019re talking about.\u201d","Just two years after his friend William Aldridge, 18, was fatally wounded in an IED explosion in Afghanistan, becoming the youngest British soldier to die there, Rifleman Allan Arnold took his own life. The 20-year-old was on leave and staying with his sister Abigail, 23, in Cirencester, when he was found dead.She recalls the last thing he ever said to her: \u201c\u2018Don\u2019t lock the door as I will be coming straight back, I\u2019ll see you in a bit\u2019. Allan was walking someone home who had had too much to drink and he knew how much I hated leaving my front door unlocked when I was going to bed.\u201dBut he never came back and was later found hanging from a tree on the edge of Cirencester.\u201cAt first I didn\u2019t really want to believe it. I couldn\u2019t believe that my brother had taken his own life.\u201dAbigail describes the brother she grew up with. \u201cHe was truly amazing, he had gone through so much and struggled so hard as a child with dyslexia and attention deficit disorder, but throughout everything Allan never gave up. When he had a goal he always achieved it no matter what. He was kind and honest and full of laughter, he would give you the shirt off his back if you needed it. He loved all his family and friends and would have done anything for us. He was fantastic - truly amazing, very free spirited, and anything was possible in Allan\u2019s eyes.\u201dBefore he went to Afghanistan in 2009, her brother was \u201cfull of life, really hyperactive and always having a good time, his motto was work hard play harder. When he was home the house was always full of laughter and banter and loud music it was always fun.\u201dBut Allan returned from Afghanistan \u201ca broken man, a man who had traumatic flashbacks that on one occasion had resulted in hospitalisation, and he barely slept for the fear of \u2018going back there\u2019.\u201dHer brother started drinking heavily and \u201cbarely talked about his tour, only when he was drunk and of a certain state of mind. Even then he spoke more of his guilt about surviving and being uninjured than of what actually happened. He\u2019d said a couple of times that it should have been him who had died not his mates. It was hard hearing this, and equally as hard seeing him cry over a hallucination of his mate William Aldridge - whom Allan said was standing in our family kitchen smiling and looking at him.\u201dAbigail recalls the guilt her brother felt. \u201cI think Allan blamed himself even though it wasn\u2019t his fault and there was nothing he could have done to prevent it, he felt guilty for being alive.\u201dWhilst not blaming anyone for her brother\u2019s death, she says more could have been done to prevent it. \u201cHe obviously wasn\u2019t in a good place and I believe that the Army/MOD failed in its duty of care to acknowledge Allan\u2019s pain and suffering.\u201dHis sister adds: \u201cIn the weeks before his death Allan had spoken out to a physiotherapist about his mental health saying he didn\u2019t feel ready to go back out on tour and that he was struggling...yet nothing came of this conversation.\u201dThe sense of loss she feels is indescribable. \u201cI don\u2019t think I can put into words how much I miss Alan at all, there\u2019ll be a song on the radio that will remind me of him or somebody will walk past whose wore the same deodorant or aftershave as him and you get that gut wrenching feeling in your stomach like you want to be sick, because you are never going to see him again.\u201dDetermined that her brother\u2019s death not be in vain, she has vowed to \u201cdo all that I can to raise awareness of post-traumatic stress disorder. I will not rest until the opinion of PTSD being a weakness is changed and until there is a change in the system where all individuals who want and need help are actually given it. Counselling needs to be more readily available, the stigma of PTSD being a weakness needs to change its not a weakness at all it never has been a weakness. And I think that more awareness needs to be raised about the stresses and strains that our troops go through with any tour.\u201d","One of that generation of post-war intellectuals who rose to the top of the academic tree in spite of humble childhood circumstances, Peter Walsh was a Latinist of huge range \u2013 the author of definitive studies of texts from the classical period, but also a scholar and translator who specialised in medieval Latin.PG Walsh was born Patrick Walsh in Accrington, Lancashire in 1923. He disliked the name, opting for Peter instead, even though he had a brother of the same name. His father, also Peter, worked in menial jobs and his family of 11 shared a two-up, two down house. Walsh won scholarships to Preston Catholic College and then to Liverpool University, where he took a First in Classics.After service in Italy and Palestine in the Intelligence Corps (to which he was transferred after recording the lowest ever score in RAF practical tests) he taught in the universities of Dublin, Edinburgh, and Glasgow, where he was appointed Professor of Humanity in 1972. By now he had already published two revolutionary works of classical criticism \u2013 Livy (1961) and The Roman Novel (1970).He was also an accomplished medievalist. On being appointed to a personal chair at Edinburgh his inaugural lecture was on the earthy love lyrics of Carmina Burana, and he also produced an important edition of Capellanus\u2019s The Art of Courtly Love. He enjoyed spells as a visiting professor at Toronto, Yale, North Carolina and Georgetown, often lecturing on anti-feminism in the literature of the period.Influenced by his father, who had had a mystical experience after being wounded at the Somme, Walsh was a devout Catholic. This was one reason for his interest in patristic writers such as St Paulinus, St Thomas Aquinas and St Augustine. He received a papal decoration for this work.In his retirement, he lived happily with Eileen, his wife of nearly 60 years. His work rate did not drop. He translated The Golden Ass, The Satyricon and several other texts for the Oxford World\u2019s Classics and undertook a new version of Augustine\u2019s gigantic The City of God for Oxbow Books.He completed 16 of the 22 books before the effects of Parkinson\u2019s Disease weakened him. He was at his desk on the day before his death, however, and was thrilled by the generous international warmth that greeted Harvard\u2019s publication of his anthology of Latin hymns. He was widely known as an inspiring teacher, a generous friend, a supportive colleague, and a gentle paterfamilias. He is survived by his wife, five children and 18 grandchildren.Patrick Gerard Walsh, academic: born Accrington, Lancashire 16 August 1923; married Eileen (five children); died 16 January 2013.","A three-year-old boy who can count to 200 and name every country in the world has become one of the youngest members of Mensa.Sherwyn Sarabi, from Barnsley, South Yorkshire, is ranked among the top 1 per cent of cleverest people in the world after tests revealed he had an IQ of 136. His mother, Amanda Sarabi, said she was really proud of her gifted son, who she described as \u201camazing\u201d.Sherwyn, who has a reading age of six, began speaking at the age of 10 months and was talking in sentences at 20 months. By the age of two, he could read, count to 200, recognise and name countries, flags, planets in the solar system, parts of the body and internal organs.Mrs Sarabi, 36, a former teacher, said her son could point out every country in the world on a globe and match it to its flag. He could also explain the function of each internal organ.She said: \u201cHis general knowledge is amazing. He knows about everything. It\u2019s not like talking to a three-year-old. He doesn\u2019t even watch children\u2019s programmes, he watches the news. The weather is his favourite, especially the world weather. He loves that.\u201dShe added: \u201cWe take every day as it comes. I\u2019ve never forced teaching anything on to him. If he comes to me and asks me about a topic, I teach him to the best of my knowledge. Sometimes I have to look it up because I don\u2019t know the answer but I explain it to him, then he\u2019s happy.\u201d","The news that Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands is to step down from the throne in April, to give her eldest son, Prince Willem-Alexander, a shot at reigning will come as a relief to the Dutch people. She wasn't a popular queen: she married a German aristocrat who'd been involved in the Hitler Youth movement, and refused to cut back her state allowance of \u20ac830,000 (\u00a3710,000) as other European royals had done. Nowhere, though, will her abdication be more warmly greeted than at a certain address in London SW1\u2026The scene: Morning. The Blue Dining Room, Buckingham Palace. Prince Charles is seated at the table, buttering toast and reading the newspapers. The Duke of Edinburgh is helping himself to scrambled eggs and kippers. Admiral Sir Mortimer Blanchard and Field Marshal Rodney \"Stinker\" Fortescue are in attendance.Enter HM the Queen.: Marvellous people the Dutch. Very sound in many areas. Art. Cheese. Windmills. Er, tulips. A very enlightened bunch, historically. We could learn a lot from them.Prince Charles: Are there any Cinnamon Grahams?The Queen: All finished, I fear, Ma'am. May I pass you the Oatibix?Admiral Blanchard: Have you seen the newspapers, Mummy? There's a very interesting piece in about Queen Bea\u2026CharlesThe Independent: One has decided to read nothing in the print media any more, bar Horse &amp; Hind and Arthritis Monthly. Everything else is all rot. Anything I need to know, Stinker here can brief me.The Queen: Queen Beatrix has announced she's, ah, stepping down, Mummy. Of course she is a great age\u2026 I mean, 75. It's amazing she's kept at it so long.Charles: Stepping dine? In what sense is she stepping dine?The Queen: She is, ah, retiring from her role as head of state. Ceasing to reign. Relinquishing the throne to let her belov...Charles: Why must one always have this Waitrose tiger bread? It's like eating one's embroidered pillow.The Queen: ... beloved son become king. He's 45 you know. Quite old really. [Hastily] Not too old, of course. Sufficiently mature, I mean, to take on such a solemn duty.Charles: And this Lurpak Spreadable stuff isn't real butter. It's got some kind of oil in it.The Queen: She must love him very much to stand aside and give him the chance to...Charles (voice trembling): Mmm. Although this Oxford marmalade always hits the spot.The Queen: It says in that her reign was marked by tragedy and family scandal, and it's jolly well time she gave up.Charles (tartly)The Independent: Philip? What do you make of this Dutch queen story?The Queen: Never liked 'em. She and her kids always marrying bloody crooks or beastly Nazis. Not a patch on Juliana, any of 'em.Prince Philip: Marvellous person, Queen Juliana, wasn't she? Of course she also, ah, retired, didn't she, in 1980, so that Beatrix could take over?Charles (slyly): The word I think you're groping for, Charles, is abdicate. I say \"I think\" because it's not a word in one's vocabulary. (Steely) Nor ever will be.The Queen: Oh, Mummy. (Puts head in hands. Blubs)Charles: Pass the Duchy Originals, there's a good chap.Prince Philip","'So how does it feel?' is the reasonable question you hear a lot when your book completes the long ascent from production purgatory to movieplex. First off, there's a primal kick to be had from seeing and hearing your word made flesh. Before your very eyes, actors are speaking dialogue you wrote in your back bedroom years ago, and all those nonexistent people are now real. They find flashes of humour or menace that you never spotted, and pretty soon all memory is gone of how you imagined the character looked before the actor muscled in.For a playwright or screenwriter this ontological wow is a normal day at the office, but my memory of the first cast read-through of the Cloud Atlas script will stay with me forever. With three or four actors unable to attend, the film's three directors \u2013 Tom Tykwer and Lana and Andy Wachowski, who also wrote the screenplay \u2013 were divvying up the spare roles, and it seemed rude not to volunteer. I hadn't been in a group-reading situation since my high-school English class, but instead of my 17-year-old classmates sitting around the table slogging through A Passage to India, here were the likes of Mr Hanks, Ms Berry, Mr Grant and Mr Broadbent delivering lines that sounded uncannily familiar. That whole experience felt rather like a dream of finding Gandhi playing Connect 4 with your plumber in the cupboard under the stairs \u2014 it wasn't so much the individual elements of the scene that were surreal, but their juxtaposition.Yet the fact soon sinks in that you've morphed from being your novel's monotheistic Creator to the guy who happened to write the original novel. How this makes you feel depends, I guess, on how you feel about the adaptation itself. Hand on heart, I've never experienced much anxiety in this quarter. I'd met the three directors in 2008, when their manner and vision reassured me that Cloud Atlas was in capable hands. Their plan to foreground the novel's \"transmigrating souls\" motif by having actors perform multiple roles (each role being a sort of way-station on that soul's karmic journey) struck me as ingenious. Some changes to plot and character were inevitable, so the book's six worlds could be coaxed into a film-shaped container: the love interest between the (now) middle-aged Zachry and Meronym on post-apocalyptic Hawaii, for example, or Cavendish's epilogue, which appears in the film but not the book.Moreover the novel's Russian-doll structure has become more of a mosaic structure \u2013 you can't ask a viewer to begin a film for the sixth time after 100 minutes and not expect popcorn to fly. I could see that wherever the Cloud Atlas screenplay differs from Cloud Atlas the movie, it did so for sound narrative reasons that left me much more impressed than piqued. (At the read-through I was sitting next to Lana Wachowski and when a line earned a particularly strong response I'd whisper, 'Was that one of yours or one of mine?' The tally was about 50/50, I think.) Anyway, film adaptations of novels are sometimes prone to failure, not because they are too faithless but too faithful: why spend all that effort producing an audiobook with pictures?Production! My week on set in Berlin in December 2011 gave me access to a world I'd heard a lot about, but never visited. Look \u2013 there's a clone recycling unit where there wasn't one an hour ago; mind out, fibreglass mountain outcrop coming through; what, are all hi-tech sliding doors in SF movies made of painted plywood? Nosiness about other peoples' jobs is a writerly habit I try to cultivate, and I filled a Moleskine with notes from informal interviews with a range of professionals I rarely, if ever, encounter in my solitary-ish novelist's life: language coaches, script editors, costume- and set-designers, CGI animators, entertainment lawyers, caterers, extras, a futuristic vehicle designer, stuntmen, and the accountants who monitor the financial Niagara that is any film in full production.I acquired a heightened respect for actors, too: there was nothing computer-generated about the water drenching the ever-gracious Halle Berry up to her neck (for the second take that afternoon); and David Gyasi, who plays a 19th-century Moriori islander in the film, helped me decide what sort of accent I had had in mind when writing the character by riffing from a pitch-perfect Maori accent to Caribbean and then to African with the ease of a man changing hats. Thanks to my cameo appearance, I also learnt how many hours are spent in the trailer for every minute on screen. Little wonder some actors become voracious readers. Directors during a shoot are often compared to generals during a war, but I'm not sure if the metaphor does full justice to the job. Directors are not only strategists; they need to be dramaturges and editors, morale-handlers and arse-kickers; cameramen and soundmen, diplomats and economists and (ideally) artists of the highest calibre.\u00a0They also need a ton of physical and mental stamina \u2013 during production, every 16- or 17-hour day sees the director getting bombarded with hundreds of questions. Tagging along after the Wachowskis and Tykwer for a few days encouraged me to look for similarities and differences between my own addiction to writing novels and the relatively vast operation of filmmaking. Perhaps where text slides towards ambiguity, film inclines to specificity. (Creative writing students are often taught to \"Show Don't Tell\", but in truth words can only tell; that's why they aren't images.)Perhaps a novel contains as many versions of itself as it has readers, whereas a film's final cut vaporises every other way it might have been made, at least until a remake or director's cut. Yet while a written scene can only bear so much detail, every last aspect of a filmed scene \u2013 light, acoustics, the objects peopling it \u2013 can, and should, be considered. And while a writer has only clumsy means of saying exactly how a given line is to be heard in the reader's head (italics and adverbs), a director gets to fine-tune the delivery of that line and preserve it for all time. Film-making is as extraordinary a world behind the scenes as it can be on-screen, and whatever happens to the film commercially, I'll always be grateful to Cloud Atlas and its three directors for my temporary visa.'Cloud Atlas' is released in cinemas nationwide on 22 February; the book, by David Mitchell, is published by Sceptre, \u00a37.99","Men in Japan have been loudly declaring their affection for their wives as part of the country's Love Your Wife Day.As part of the annual event 12 men stood on a stage and bellowed out their feelings for their better halves in front of a crowd.","A British \u201cseasonaire\u201d has drowned in a swimming pool at the end of a night out in a French ski resort.Lucy Sallis, 19, became trapped under a pool cover after she plunged into the water in Alpe d'Huez, reports said.She is believed to have been drinking with friends before they decided to scale a high fence and go for a swim.The teenager, reportedly from Bognor Regis, West Sussex, was working in the kitchen at the Belle Aurore hotel in the French Alps resort.Local police today confirmed a woman drowned in the heated municipal pool.According to reports, she failed to resurface after diving in early yesterday morning.Friends are said to have looked for her under a protective sheet covering part of the pool where they found her body, but their attempts to revive her failed.Tributes were paid on Twitter to Miss Sallis who was described as \"the most perfect girl\".One read: \"If that doesn't show you how short life is I dunno what does.\"Another friend wrote: \"Rest in peace beautiful Lucy Sallis. She was such a beautiful girl, praying for my best friend and her family right now! xxxxx.\"Another well-wisher tweeted: \"Its horrible how fast a life can be taken away, your with the angels now, rip beautiful.\"PA","Most people from Scotland, to varying degrees, tend to identify themselves as Scottish and/or British. For personal reasons (and we're all products of our past, as well as, hopefully, visionaries of our futures) I've always felt a strong emotional connection to both.This might be expected to place me in the 'better together' unionist camp, alongside the three major parties of the 35-year British neo-liberal economic consensus; Conservative, Liberal Democrats and Labour. However, this was never a tenable position for me. To explain why, I'm going to crave the reader's indulgence and ask you to stick with me on a long digression to Southall, through the 1970s.As a teenager I spent a lot of time down in this west London suburb with my Aunt Jessie. She was my Uncle Alec's wife; they met at a dance hall when he was working on London's railways and she was a nurse at St Thomas' Hospital. It was an instant stellar love affair, and one that evaporated the substantial differences between them. Jessie's folks were both domestic servants in a large Kensington home, and she had inherited their Upstairs, Downstairs view of the world, whereby ruling elites were both duty-bound and well-trained in the effective running of the nation, and would largely discharge this thankless activity in everyone's best interests.Alec, by contrast, was a union man, a railway worker who came from a family of dockers, and steeped in industrial socialism. He liked a drink, and had a strong sense of joie de vivre. I think they complemented each other; he brought out her fun side, while she grounded and centred him. They started married life in Fulham (when it was a working-class district) where they had a daughter, Elizabeth, and a son, Alec junior, known as 'Young Alec' in my family. As neither Alec nor Jessie came from well-to-do circumstances, they understandably wanted to give their kids some of the opportunities they'd never enjoyed. They were delighted to have saved up enough cash to move to the northern part of Southall, which was then a leafy, desirable suburb.The family lived happily at Somerset Road and Uncle Alec obtained a better-paid job within British Rail, as Jessie quit work to look after the kids. Their life, when I was conscious of coming into it as a small child in the Sixties, seemed to be a very good one. Alec had been a committed Hearts supporter and he'd adopted Chelsea as his London club, due to the Stamford Bridge ground's proximity to their old Fulham home. Alec junior thus grew up a Chelsea fan, so on family visits south I was regularly taken to the Shed. It was an almost identikit, smaller version of the old Copland Road End at Ibrox. If you went there in the Seventies, you could see why so many Rangers supporters working in London made Chelsea their team; it would have felt a home from home for them. Those long 207 bus treks along the Uxbridge Road, then the Tube ride from Ealing Broadway to Fulham Broadway became etched into my DNA. There were afternoons in the beer garden of the local watering hole the Lady Margaret pub, and most impressive of all for me, being from a council flat, there was the house, with its small wooden conservatory attached, leading to a beautiful garden containing a shed and greenhouse.Every family has its tensions and struggles. While I was oblivious to any at Somerset Road, I'm aware that, through my child's eyes, I'm making this life seem more idyllic than it probably was. What is beyond question is that it was shattered by my Uncle Alec's untimely death at work, through a sudden heart attack. The post-mortem revealed a congenital issue, which had gone undetected. This was devastating for the family. For reasons I've never quite understood, Aunt Jessie became estranged from Elizabeth, who had married and moved to Surrey and would soon have children of her own. However, my uncle's extended family back in Leith was very supportive of Jessie, and they became even closer following the tragedy of Uncle Alec's death. We all kept up our regular London visits, and Jessie and Alec junior particularly, were frequently in Edinburgh for extended spells.I'm not inclined by nature to look back, and I'm not big on dates, nor do I tend to keep, or gaze at, loads of old photographs. It's therefore difficult to be exact about how many visits/extended stays I had to that house at Somerset Road through the Seventies. But it's impossible to over-emphasise just how much those excursions helped to form my outlook on life. As we know, kids perceive time differently, so the summer of '75 and '76 seemed to me like two lifetimes' worth of experience, and even a weekend jaunt to a gig, a sporting occasion or a wedding, gave the sense of cramming in more adventures than a month's travelling does now.I idolised Alec junior, who was 10 years older than me. He was a handsome guy who looked very like the young David Hemmings. Alec inherited his dad's dapper bearing and swagger and dressed very well, an archetypal London wide boy and determined ladies' man. Every time he'd bring a girl home, Aunt Jessie would be on the phone, saying hopefully to my mum and aunties, \"I really think this is the one for Alec\u2026\", but she'd invariably be replaced by another mini-skirted doll, many of whom I had the torturous privilege of observing at close quarters on my Southall visits. At 13, covered in spots, hormones raging, I'd brood with twisted envy at how lucky the effortlessly cool Alec was, with his seemingly endless procession of London lovelies. But sadly that was to be far from the case; Alec was still in his twenties when he was killed in a hit-and-run incident on Lady Margaret Road, after leaving the Lady Margaret pub. The driver was never apprehended.My Aunt Jessie was thus cruelly prematurely bereaved for a second time, losing the son she truly adored. And she was terribly isolated, as the community she'd known was rapidly changing, due to a massive influx of Asian immigrants. People, mainly from Bangladesh and Bengal, started to arrive in Southall, first in the poorer section of the area, around the railway station, south of the Uxbridge Road. \"They've even got their own banks!\" my Aunt Jessie would exclaim in outrage. The incomers (any discussion of class, race and nationality in Britain's toxic social waters always makes the most innocuous word sound so pejorative and loaded) then started to jointly purchase the smarter houses on her side of the district. Those single-family homes thus became multiple-occupancy dwellings, as different music and new cooking aromas started to fill the air.It was my first awareness, coming from a council house in Scotland, of just how much the economic and social life of the south-east was driven by the property market. Whites panicked and sold up, most moving even further along the M4 corridor. To make matters worse for Aunt Jessie, Fulham, where she, Uncle Alec and their children had moved from, had gentrified and become a sought-after, solidly bourgeois neighbourhood. She watched her old terrace house there exponentially gain in value, while property prices on her Southall home stagnated.It was around this time my visits to her became more frequent, first with other family members, then on my own. I loved Jessie's white painted house, and that amazing garden. Coming from a grey scheme of systems-built rabbit hutches, the invigorating effect was similar to the one I currently experience when I leave the bleak Chicago winter and head south to sun-kissed Miami Beach for an extended stay. One of my best memories of my dad is of us working together to repair Jessie's shed, greenhouse and conservatory, which had predictably suffered from neglect since both Alecs had departed.Whereas Aunt Jessie understandably saw only threat in Southall's changing demographics, the whole place was just mystical to me: suggesting enough of Bombay or Calcutta to make me want to go there. The two Asian girls next door were beyond gorgeous and as soon as they appeared in their adjoining garden, I'd be right outside, pretending to do stuff. Sadly, my attempted seductions got no further than some exchanged flirty grins and urgent whispers through the hedge. I recall being the only white in a Bollywood film screening at a makeshift cinema on the Uxbridge Road. The other movie attendees looked at me as if I was mental, and I probably was, but I had a marvellous time, though I kept this experience from Jessie.The local white kids adopted me readily. Their shrinking, beleaguered tribe could always use another face, albeit a temporary one. Because of my Scottish accent they thought I was \"hard\", and while I wasn't, I knew enough real radges back home to be able to front it with aplomb. Every time I returned to Southall they were a little older, and we graduated from playing football to drinking and attending Chelsea and QPR games (although West Ham were my favourite London club) and rock'n'roll gigs. The writer Tim Lott comes from the area, and although we don't recall each other from this time, we would later become friends, and Tim's observations of Southall chime with a lot of my own memories. Social networks have recently reunited me with one of that crowd, Trevor Bryden, who now lives in Melbourne.But my best friend in Southall was my Auntie Jessie. She read the Daily Mail and quoted from it like a Bible. Her politics were always Conservative-inclined, but had drifted further to the right in the absence of the counterbalancing forces of her husband and son. The only time I ever heard any malevolence from this kindliest of souls was on the issue of immigration. Now I realise that she was displacing her anger; grieving for the two Alecs and her lost life, and today I would just let her vent. At the time though, I had a scanter sensitivity to thesef issues and I would argue and debate with her all day, and sometimes all night. I would bring home the Socialist Worker and quote from it in the same way as she did with the Mail. Aunt Jessie loathed Tony Benn, who was my political hero, but who, as an aristocrat, had done the unforgivable in her eyes by not patronising working people, but instead encouraging them to stand up for their rights. But Benn was positively angelic compared to the detested local Labour MP Sydney Bidwell, a Tribune group member who was an ex-NUR colleague of my Uncle Alec's. \"I know all abaht 'im!\" Jessie would smugly intone.This ought to have led to discord, but Aunt Jessie loved our playful political jousting as much as I did. Now I can see that it was almost certainly something she had engaged in regularly with the two Alecs. So despite the fact that we were such an unlikely pairing, we never, ever fell out. Outside of my immediate family household, I had never felt so loved by another person, and she made Somerset Road seem like a second home to me. For my part, I worshipped this hurt and lost, but absolutely wonderful, big-hearted and generously-spirited woman with all my heart. She would say to me, obviously mindful of the terrible experience of her son, \"I don't care what you do, you can come home as drunk as a lord if you wish, but you never, ever stay out after 1am. That means you have to leave the West End before midnight to get back here. If you don't return by then, I'll be forced to phone your mother and tell her that you've gone missing.\"I would later appreciate how the terrible tragedy of Alec junior weighed heavily on her, but also that Aunt Jessie was giving me, a teenager alone in London, tremendous licence, which I didn't have back in Edinburgh. At the time, though, I quietly resented the imposition of this curfew. I was conscious of being a Cinderella figure; at a club or pub I would vanish before midnight, with all the resultant social and sexual heartbreak, in order to catch the Tube and bus back to Southall. It would almost be worth it however, when I came in and saw a plate bearing two rolls on the kitchen table, one with ham, the other with cheese, with always the same accompanying note: 'IRVINE, SSHHH! XXX'. The rolls had very chewy, light-brown crusts, and I'd never, ever tasted anything like them. I used to argue that the well-fired rolls from the bakers in Muirhouse were better, but I think Jessie saw, via the number I got through, that I was a committed fan.Jessie and I had what, to me, was a crucial bond between us. At 16, I had been on a drunken night on the town in Edinburgh, with three pals, Raymond, Paul and John. We were at the Office Bar in Tolcross, an Italian-run establishment, and a well-known underage drinkers' joint. We were heading back to the scheme through town, and stopped off at the Alba D'Oro chip shop. There was, as always, a huge closing-time queue at this popular spot. John and myself opted to wait, but Raymie and Paul lost patience and left. A few minutes later, they were driving past in a white van they had broken into, tooting the horn and waving at us. The blurred view through those big, plate-glass windows of that New Town chippy was the last time we saw them alive. Both were killed in a head-on collision with a lorry on the Forth Road Bridge.Going into my work as an apprentice that following Monday, this old cunt (I can only describe him as such) had a made a comment in relation to the story of the fatal crash about \"car thieves getting what they deserve\". I first blew up, then ran to the toilets, choking in a silent rage until I managed to compose myself. Still very much boys, John and I felt that everybody would judge us as low-life car thieves, (we obviously would have been in that van, as we had others before, but for the salvation of our greed) so we kept our mouths shut about our presence on that night, to every one other than our friends at school and Raymond and Paul's families. Apart from Raymond's mum, the only adult I was able to talk to about this incident was my Aunt Jessie, in that other world that was Southall. I told her how much the loss of those two great friends affected me, and shared my undoubted relief but strange guilt that I wasn't in that van with them. At the time I didn't realise that Jessie must have considered that my pals' actions might perhaps have been mirrored in Southall, but by youths who went on to destroy Alec junior, rather than themselves. But she didn't judge, she just listened and let me talk. I begged her not to disclose this confidence to my parents. Jessie promised she wouldn't, but told me that I should. (I eventually did, at her urgings, and they were great about it.)The frequency and length of my London visits increased with my growing independence, to the extent it became clear to me, and to my mum, that I was ramping myself up for a permanent move south. I moved to Somerset Road for a spell, then into a squat (though I never, at the time, told either Jessie or my mum it was that) at Shepherd's Bush. Then I met af girl from Ilford. When I decided (wrongly) that I needed a formal education, to be close to her I attended Essex University at Colchester, which was actually much further from Ilford (and Southall) than I thought. Even though I spent a lot of my early time at university alternately trying to extract myself from, then rekindle, this turbulent but oddly compulsive relationship, I would traverse London to visit Jessie. I still salivate at the thought of those restorative roast beef and roast lamb Sunday dinners. I also kept in touch with Tony, Jack and Trevor from the local crowd; I was at the Hambrough Tavern on the Uxbridge Road the weekend before an infamous race riot erupted there, following the performance of a right-wing white supremacist band.Aunt Jessie and I started to move \u2013 literally \u2013 in separate directions. As I completed my course and settled into London, she gave up on her beautiful little house and its bittersweet memories, selling to an Asian couple and heading north to Leith, the home of her beloved late husband's family. She was the very last white resident in Somerset Road to move out. Later, whenever I spoke to her about Southall, she readily admitted that her perspective was clouded by her terrible losses. Otherwise, she would have accepted that her part of the London Borough of Ealing had transitioned into an area of young Asian families, and that as an older, single white woman, it was an inappropriate location for her in terms of lifestyle and culture, and simply moved away. However, she had a tremendous emotional attachment to the house where she and Uncle Alec had raised their children.Fortunately, my aunt's story has a happier ending. Jessie loved Edinburgh, and it loved her back. She was an integral part of my family and made a strong network of friends, keeping busy and getting involved in local activities. Hearteningly, she and her daughter Elizabeth put whatever was keeping them apart behind them, and she enjoyed bonding with her grandchildren, visiting them regularly in the south-east. She remained very much one of us until she passed away, leaving us all with heavy hearts, but beautiful memories.As a rule I dislike talking about my family or my close friends. They are precious and special to me, and often the thought of using them as part of my tale seems inherently shabby and cheapening \u2013 especially as their stories are invariably far more interesting than my own. Why then, this long, self-disclosing preamble? Well now comes the crux of those reminiscences; as much as I loved London, I was also learning that the widely assumed political and cultural homogeneity of the UK, even in the Seventies, was exaggerated and breaking down. Communities like Southall were emerging all over England, but NOT Scotland. These differences, due to black and Asian immigration, and obviously related to imperialism and the emergence of a relatively prosperous and different type of economy in the south-east, would only exacerbate.I discovered that London and the south-east was massively subsidised by the rest of the UK, by the very structure of unitary government. There is no divine reason for the UK to exist as a centralised state, any more, say, than there is for the German Republic to operate as a federal one. This is simply based on precedent, the one for Britain being that it is a class-divided, hierarchical society, with a hereditary head of state, large aristocracy and unelected second chamber. Of course, Germany's differing status means that the civic wealth is shared across the nation, not concentrated into one region.With the parliament, civil service and media all stuffed into one city, the private investment soon follows, as does more public money on infrastructure and sporting and cultural arenas, in order to show to the world that 'we' are indeed the best. I learnt, and it has to be said to my personal gain, that the main premium of this concentration of the 'unitary state subsidy' lies in the local property prices. Thus any other regional 'subsidies' were simply a paltry redistribution of this bigger, on-going subsidy.But the property obsession gripped me. I knew that I would one day buy and sell houses to make money, and as a teenager had conceived a not-so-unlikely plan of being able to retire by 30. This notion enthralled me: you can make money without working. You didn't need to do anything. You simply studied the movement of property prices across those tightly-packed London postcodes and bought and sold accordingly. Of course, I needed the sort of start-up capital few 'schemies' could accrue, but theoretically at least, it could be done, and to an extent, it was.I also learnt that this concentration of wealth might, in the short-term, have operated to the relative benefit of London's poor (in relation to the other urban poor in Britain), but was invariably to their overall detriment. London (much more so than Berlin) is now a very hard city to live in without a great deal of money. It owes its much-vaunted social mix solely to Hitler's bombers. If so much council housing hadn't been built on those gap sites to cater for the post-war boom, 30 years of neo-liberalism would have driven all the working classes and the poor from the inner city, and thus spared much of the 'multiculturalist' bourgeois angst about the schools their offspring should attend.Like many Scots, I grew up saturated in something I assumed to be 'Britishness', and I loved it. Steptoe and Son, The Likely Lads, Play For Today, they were my cultural staples, and I was personally liberated by the welfare state, specifically the Butler Education Act. This meant that my college fees would be paid in full by the state, and I would also receive a full grant, which amounted to two-thirds of my dad's wages. Now all that has gone, and I personally would never enter the prison of debt, in order to go to university for a degree that has been rendered pretty meaningless. I would choose to invest any resources I had in other directions; like many bright, eager young kids from poorer backgrounds now do, I'd probably buy a rock of cocaine, cut it and sell it. And repeat. It simply makes more economic sense.But as post- (military) imperial, welfare-state Britain declined, what I've also learnt, and, like many Scots, am constantly having reinforced, is that a lot of what I believed to be 'Britishness' was really just another term for 'Englishness'. I watched a Jamie Oliver special just before Christmas, when the chef was having a dessert cook-off with the Italian masters. The terms 'English' and 'British' were repeatedly used interchangeably on the relatively politically correct 'regions and nations'-conscious Channel 4. Of course, it's hardly the fault of Oliver or his buddies that asserting their Englishness puts them in a defacto position of marginalising and oppressing Scots or Welsh or Northern Irish people. Nor is it Scottish people's culpability for being cast in a recalcitrant and belligerent role if they dare to bring up those continued slights. After all, sticky toffee pudding is an English dish, not a British one, so why not call it so? The accountability for this does not even principally lie with the shifting reality of 'Britishness'; it can be placed squarely on the shoulders of the UK imperialist state.This English appropriation of Britishness, what the cultural theorist Stuart Hall calls \"an assumed Englishness, which always negotiates against difference\", is now a powerful hegemonic force, which serves this state. In the past, when that 'Britishness' was formed by imperial and industrial expansion, and the esprit de corps engendered by the First and Second World Wars and the creation of a welfare state, it was largely an inclusive concept. Then, this 'assumed Englishness' was only a minor irritant to Scots. In the context of these islands now being a 'sales territory' in a globalised, monolithic, neo-liberal economic order, it becomes a far more sinister, inherently marginalising force.So my main contention; the problem for both Scotland and England is not so much an inherent cultural assumption of the movable feast that is 'Britishness', but this within the context of the UK as a political state, formed on imperialist, hegemonic structures. This state has stopped England from pursuing its main mission, namely to build an inclusive, post-imperial, multiracial society, by forcing it to engage with the totally irrelevant (from an English perspective) distractions of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. From the viewpoint of the Scots, it has foisted 35 years of a destructive neo-liberalism upon us, and prevented us from becoming the European social democracy we are politically inclined to be.Therefore I'm advancing another proposition: political separation could promote the cultural unity that the UK state, in its current form, with its notions of 'assumed Englishness', is constantly undermining. Despite the shallow flag-waving by social engineers in government and sections of the media, who tried to turn it into a bread-and-circuses propaganda event, the Olympics were the best expression of inclusive Britishness we've had for decades. (The Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebrations, despite massive media hype and the pathetic efforts of a few unionist Labour councils, still amounted to an inconsequential joke in Scotland.) Danny Boyle, in a couple of hours, did more to assert democratic socialist values over neo-liberalism than the UK Labour Party has managed to do in almost 40 years. But it was also nostalgic; it mirrored not just what many of us still aspire to, it showed us what we have to accept we've irredeemably lost. But I cheered just as ecstatically when Brad Wiggins crossed the line as when Chris Hoy did, and plenty other Scots I know did too. So post-UK, why not, for example, just keep the British Olympic team?If we rid ourselves of the political imperialist baggage of the UK state, new possibilities emerge. For example, it would become feasible for Ireland, as an established sovereign nation, to see itself as part of a shared geographical and cultural entity. This, in turn, brings potential opportunities for the continued development of the peace process in Northern Ireland. The idea of the political independence of England and Scotland leading to conflict, hatred and distrust is the mindset of opportunistic status-quo fearmongers and gloomy nationalist fantasists stuck in a Bannockburn-Culloden timewarp, and deeply insulting to the people of both countries. Swedes, Norwegians and Danes remain on amicable terms; they trade, co-operate and visit each other socially any time they like. They don't need a pompous, blustering state called Scandinavia, informing them from Stockholm how wonderful they all are, but (kind of) only really meaning Sweden.Poisonous resentments may surface most readily in the embittered personality, but it's more fruitful to look at perceived injustices rather than individual pathology, in order to find their roots. Most Scots who go to England, and most English people who come to Scotland, stay because they like it. They contribute to each country. Yes, some Scots might get wound up by arrogant and pompous types who've made a killing on the housing market and revel in playing the big white chiefs in their new surroundings, just as many English folks might get tired of the aggressive, scrounging jakeys, and the carpet-bagging politicians drip-fed by our sludgy Labour Party bureaucracy into the Westminster system. But only a bigoted arsehole, or someone with a self-serving agenda, would seek to infer that Scottish and English people are inherently more racist than either each other, or the rest of the world, by seizing on isolated incidents. It would be good, though I'm being very optimistic, to hope that we could dispense with all this shite in the run-up to the 2014 referendum, and consider the real issues.As an imperialist, class-based state, the UK is poorly equipped to meet the divergent needs of its constituent nations in this rapidly transmuting world. Scotland and England both deserve better, as do Wales and Northern Ireland. Whether the change to facilitate this comes from the 2014 Scottish referendum or not might be important to Scots, but is almost irrelevant in the grand scheme of things. The point is that it will happen. The Union Jack is the increasingly shrinking fig leaf that strives to cover the growth of an English nationalism and consciousness, which is visible in almost every aspect of life in these islands over the past 30 years. And that, in a post-imperial world, is how it should be, and probably how it has to be. The problem that the Scots, Welsh and Northern Irish have to face, is that they have no place at this party, and neither should they: it just isn't a great deal to do with them.When the Labour Party stands shoulder-to-shoulder with the Conservative-dominated Coalition to contend that we're 'better together', what exactly are they arguing to preserve? The more reasoned, calculating Conservatives know that the UK state isn't, nor will ever become, some kind of Socialist/Social Democratic republic, that some members of the Labour left still seem to fantasise it as being. Far from it: in our 'home nations' over the past 30 years we've all been absolutely taken for a ride. If you doubt the veracity of this statement, just look at where the wealth has been distributed. It hasn't gone to a beaten underclass, a working-class on paltry pay and suffering worsening conditions, nor has it found its way into the pockets of a debt-ridden, fearful middle-class. Notice who is doing better than OK? The UK state can be said to have served somebody well over the past 30 years; it just hasn't been the vast majority of its own citizens.Getting rid of it won't instantly redress the massive inequities that have shamefully been allowed to heap up since I spent time in Southall in the Seventies, but it will allow the constituent countries the opportunities to put their divergent houses in order. And I believe it will permit an inclusive, respectful sense of true British identity to emerge, based on shared cultural values, rather than disparate political ideals flimsily held together around the shabby worship of an exploitative hierarchy. Better together? Yes, certainly, but better independent and free together."," inspirational. My darling dad worked in fibre optics. His name was Mervyn. We called him Optic Merv. My lovely mum, an innovative head teacher, worked full-time with no help in the house. Basically the woman looks underdressed without a plinth.My parents were\u2026 was full of love and laughter. My dad was a famous rugby player. He was once the fastest front row forward in Australian history. All he wanted were four sons whom he could teach to scrum and run. What he got instead were four feisty daughters. Is it any wonder the poor man retreated to his garage?The household I grew up in\u2026 taller.When I was a child I wanted to be\u2026 light dusting; my skirting boards have top soil. And cooking; I use my smoke alarm as a timer. Or tending herbaceous borders; my garden is the neighbourhood day spa for local foxes. I see them as free-range pets.You may not know it but I'm no good at\u2026 Johnny Depp presenting me with the Nobel Prize for Literature, then whisking me away to a tropical island where he licks the roe of virgin sturgeon from my navel beneath a tropical palm.At night I dream of\u2026 my heart on my sleeve. I'm too trusting and candid. But also, those leopard-skin hot pants and iridescent boob tube, aged 17.I wish I had never worn\u2026 Laughter lines. It's all there: the books, the babies, the hours of fun-loving flirtation, plus the challenges of raising a child with Asperger's \u2013 which inspired my latest novel, The Boy Who Fell to Earth.What I see when I look in the mirror\u2026 feminism. When did it become the worst F-word? Not only do women in Britain still not have equal pay, but females in the developing world are fed last, fed least and one woman dies every minute in childbirth. The fact that one in three girls around the world is denied an education; poverty, conflict and discrimination is a huge waste of potential.It's not fashionable but I like\u2026 many people I know up the wall. But if you're talking transport, I get around town on a bright blue bike.I drive\u2026 in north London. It backs on to [Australian comedian] Barry Humphries' home. Whenever he arrives back from some overseas jaunt he emails me and says, \"Kathy, dear, I'm poised at your rear entrance\".My house is\u2026 That I didn't sleep with George Clooney when I had the chance. I was living in Hollywood writing on the sitcom The Facts of Life, which was Clooney's first TV role. \"I'm a writer,\" I said to George at the time. \"I don't go out with actors. You put other people's words in your mouth when you never know where they've been.\" I am still impaling myself on my pen.My greatest regret\u2026A life in briefKathy Lette was born in Sydney, Australia in 1958. She had early success with her first novel, Puberty Blues, written when she was just 17. After several years as a columnist and sitcom writer she returned to novels and has penned 11 international bestsellers to date, including Mad Cows and her most recent novel, The Boy Who Fell to Earth. She is an ambassador for several charities including Plan UK, Women and Children First and the White Ribbon Alliance. She lives in London with her husband and two children","As Chris Huhne's legal team fought to get his case thrown out, his fractured relationship with his son Peter was revealed in a series of text messages read out to the court.The messages, revealed for the first time today, showed distraught Peter Huhne's anger at his father about the break up of his parents' 26-year marriage.22/6CH?: Just tried you, ring back within fivePH: Then pick up, pick up your f***king phone.PH: I don't want to speak to you , you disgust me.CH: Hope you are okay I'm visiting Gran on Saturday, would you like to come?PH: No I will see her without you.28/6CH: Peter, just to say, I'm thinking of you and I love you very much. It would be great to talk to you, Dad.PH: F**k offThen he tried to write to son.22/7PH: So nice to see our entire relationship reduced to lies and pleasantries in that letter. Do you take me for an idiot. The fact you said your parents were happier as a result of their divorce was disgusting.........when you were having affairs makes me sick.You are the most ghastly man I have ever known. Does it give you pleasure that you have lost most of your friends.30/7CH: I understand that I have really offended you but I hope that the passage of time will provide some perspective... I love you and I will support you...PH: You are right - the perspective involves me getting angrier with every day that goes by. You just don't get it.25/12CH: Happy Christmas. Love you, Dad.PH: Well I hate you, so f**k off.28/12CH: Tiger, Have you had any news from St Peter\u2019s (Oxford college) yet? Love DadNo answerCH: Congratulations, I'm really proud of you, Dad.No answerCH: Well I'm proud and I love you, Dad.PH: Leave me alone, you have no place in my life and no right to be proud. It\u2019s irritating that you don\u2019t seem to take the point. You are such an autistic piece of s**t. Don't contact me again you make me feel sick.16/1CH: I hope you are okay, just to let you know I'm thinking of you lots and love you.PH: You couldn't think about anyone but yourself. You are a pathetic loser and a joke. Have fun with your (not said but referred to CT)27/2CH: Hope you are okay. Saw a book reference and thought about you, MI6 used to be full of people who did languages at Oxford. Love you.21/5CH: I do hope your exams are going okay, despite everything over the last few weeks. Thinking of you, love you, Dad. PS It\u2019s grandad's birthday today.PH: Don't text me you fat piece of s**t.PH: Are you going to accept your responsibility or do I have to contact the police myself and tell them what you told me?"]},{"x":0.0593788062409811,"y":0.211796870679245,"no_docs":5,"words":[{"prob":2.23411369668125e-05,"word":"good"},{"prob":2.23411369668125e-05,"word":"water"},{"prob":2.23411369668125e-05,"word":"minutes"},{"prob":2.23411369668125e-05,"word":"cut"},{"prob":0.00123100364319265,"word":"rhubarb"},{"prob":0.00133480724539713,"word":"black"},{"prob":2.23411369668125e-05,"word":"men"}],"docs":["At this time of year, when the weather is cold and the season's festivities have taken their toll, it makes sense to introduce a few pulses into your suppers. January is the ideal time to clear out your larders or cupboards; you never quite know how long some of those packets have been lurking at the back of those shelves and drawers. Here, then, are some simple pulse-orientated recipes that are hearty and delicious and will give your New Year a kick-start.Chickpea and coconut curryServes 4-6The combination of the chickpeas, spices and coconut make this a great vegetarian main course \u2013 or you could serve it as a starter or side dish.200g dried chickpeas, soaked overnight in plenty of cold waterSalt\u00bdtsp bicarbonate of sodaFor the curry4tbsp vegetable or corn oil4 cloves of garlic, peeled and crushed2 green chillies, trimmed and finely chopped3 medium onions, peeled, halved and finely chopped3cm piece of cinnamon stick2 clovesThe seeds from 6 cardamom pods12 or so fennel seeds1tbsp freshly-grated turmeric or \u00bdtsp powder2tsp mustard seeds1tsp fenugreek seeds1tsp ground coriander\u00bdtsp garam masala4 medium tomatoes, chopped200ml coconut milk4-5tbsp chopped corianderDrain and rinse the chickpeas and then place them in a saucepan with a teaspoon of salt and the bicarbonate of soda and cover well with water. Bring to the boil, cover and simmer gently for about an hour, or until they are tender, then drain.Heat the oil in a heavy-based saucepan, add the garlic, chilli, onions and all of the dried spices and cook on a low heat for about 6-7 minutes.Add the chopped tomatoes, about 600-700ml water and the chickpeas. Add a couple of good pinches of salt, bring to the boil and simmer over a medium heat for about 15-20 minutes or until the sauce is just coating the chick peas. Add the coconut milk and continue simmering for 3-4 minutes, then stir in the coriander. Season to taste and serve.Cotechino with mixed pulses and mustard fruitsServes 4Cotechino is a kind of cooked salami, available from most good Italian delis and traditionally served with braised lentils or beans. Those little, quick-cooking, mixed pulses are a great larder stand-by for soups and this kind of dish.Mustard fruits (aka mostarda) are available in Italian delis and good supermarkets and really give the dish a good kick, cutting through the fattiness of the sausage.450-500g cotechinoA couple of good knobs of butter2 shallots, peeled, halved and finely chopped2 cloves of garlic, peeled and crushed1 medium carrot, peeled and cut into \u00bdcm dice1 stick of celery, peeled if stringy and cut into \u00bdcm dice80g small Italian soup pulses, soaked for 2 hours300-400ml beef stockSalt and freshly ground black pepperA few pieces of mixed mustard fruits, sliced or cut into small chunksFirst, make the sauce: heat the butter in a heavy-based saucepan and gently cook the shallots and garlic for a minute.Add the carrots, celery and drained pulses and 300ml of the stock; season, bring to the boil and simmer gently for about 30 minutes or until the pulses are tender and the stock has reduced and just coating the pulses. You may need to add some more stock during cooking. Cover and keep warm.To serve, heat the cotechino in water or stock for 10-15 minutes, remove and cut into 2cm-thick slices or thinner if you wish.Spoon the pulses on to warmed serving plates or bowls, place the cotechino on top and scatter the mustard fruits on top.A kind of British cassouletServes 4-650g lard or 3tbsp vegetable oil750g neck of pork fillet, cut into rough 3cm cubes140-200g whole piece of streaky bacon, cut into 2cm chunks1\u00bdtbsp flourSalt and freshly ground black pepper2 large onions, peeled, halved and finely chopped4 cloves of garlic, peeled and crushed1tsp tomato pur\u00e9e3-4 good-quality sausages, lightly grilled200g dried carling peas (maple peas) soaked overnight in plenty of cold waterSalt\u00bdtsp bicarbonate of sodaA few sprigs of thyme2 ltrs beef or chicken stockFor the topping30-40g fresh white breadcrumbs20-30g pork crackling, crushed upDrain and rinse the carling peas, place them in a saucepan with the salt, the bicarbonate of soda and cover well with water. Bring to the boil, cover and simmer gently for about an hour, or until they are tender, then drain.Heat the lard or oil in a heavy-based frying pan. Season the pork neck with salt and pepper, lightly flour and fry quickly on a high heat until nicely coloured all over. Remove the pieces of pork and place on a plate. Fry the pieces of bacon on a high heat until coloured and transfer to the plate with the pork.Add the onions, garlic and thyme to the pan and cook gently over a low heat for 2-3 minutes until they soften, then transfer to a heavy-based saucepan. Add the rest of the flour and tomato pur\u00e9e and stir well, then gradually stir in or whisk in the beef stock. Add the drained peas, pork neck and bacon, season lightly and simmer for 40 minutes, skimming and reserving the fat in a pot. Add the sausages and continue simmering for another 15 minutes or so, or until the pork is tender and the sauce has thickened and coated the meats.Mix the breadcrumbs, pork crackling and a little of the skimmed fat together, transfer the meats and sauce to an ovenproof dish, scatter the breadcrumb mixture on top and lightly brown under a medium grill or in a moderate oven.Chicken supreme with butter beansServes 4When I was a kid, our neighbour used to invite us in for lunch occasionally and she would serve us chicken supreme with butter beans \u2013 which was basically a can of Marks and Spencer's chicken in white sauce; I think she used to just throw in a can of butter beans too! I remembered it the other day and thought I would give it a bit of a makeover.150g good-quality butter beans, soaked overnight in plenty of cold water\u00bdtsp bicarbonate of soda8 large or 12 medium free-range chicken thighs, skinned and boned1.5ltrs chicken stock1 medium onion, peeled and finely chopped1 stick of celery, peeled if stringy and finely chopped1 small bayleafA couple of sprigs of thymeSalt and freshly ground black pepper60g butter50g plain flour3-4tbsp double cream3tbsp chopped parsleyRinse the butter beans and transfer them to a saucepan with the bicarbonate of soda and a couple of teaspoons of salt. Cover well with water, bring to the boil and simmer gently with a lid on for about an hour, or until they are tender.Put the chicken thighs in a saucepan with the stock, onions, celery, bayleaf and thyme, season, bring to the boil; then simmer very gently for 1 hour, skimming every so often. Remove the thighs and put to one side.Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour and stir on the heat for 30 seconds. Whisk the flour mixture into the stock and continue simmering gently for about 10 minutes, or until the sauce thickens.Cut the chicken thighs into 4, then add to the sauce with the butter beans and continue simmering for about 5 minutes until the sauce just coats the chicken and beans. Add the cream and parsley and season to taste.","1. Schoffel Hermine\u00a3299.99, ellis-brigham.comInspired by classic ski-fashion designs, the removable hood and snow skirt protect you from the elements while the Venturi softshell fabric insulates you from the cold.2. O'Neill Jones 2L\u00a3249.99, oneill.comNamed after US freeriding board star Jeremy Jones, the 2L won't make you ride like a pro but you can look like one. Recycled polyester allows freedom of movement.3. Arc'teryx Women's Stingray\u00a3400, snowandrock.comCanadian brand Arc'teryx has all but cornered the market in premium technical mountain wear. Its jackets are impervious to even the strongest winds and chills.4. Patagonia Men's Powder Bowl\u00a3350, patagonia.comA hard shell jacket with a dual-layer shell and Gore-Tex membrane that will keep out the cold but still let you breathe.5. Volcom Versed\u00a3130, snowandrock.comAs if the risk of snow blindness wasn't enough, Volcom has come along with a men's jacket set to dazzle everyone for miles across the slopes.6. Women's 3-in-1 Snowbelle\u00a3315, patagonia.comConditions can change with the blink of an eye. This versatile jacket has a waterproof shell and a lightweight insulation layer, which can be worn individually, or together.7. Columbia Snowcalypse\u00a3169.99, snowtraxstore.co.ukThis jacket is loaded with \"snow-rejecting\" features. There's a snap-back powder skirt, waterproof zippers and the waterproof outer is seam-sealed.8. Helly Hansen Odin\u00a3220, hellyhansen.comThis ultra-lightweight jacket is made from water-resistant Primaloft, first developed for the US army and one of the best synthetic insulation materials around.9. The North Face Men's Spineology\u00a3460, thenorthface.comNorth Face is playing catch-up with the higher-end brands with its Spineology range, including this impenetrable jacket.10. Eider Men's Geilo\u00a3239, cotswoldoutdoor.comFrench brand Eider has a reputation for quality \u2013 it has been making mountain wear since the 1960s. This jacket sports all the features you could ever want on the slopes.","The US Navy plans to dismantle a $277m (\u00a3174m) minesweeper that ran aground on a coral reef off the Philippines because removing it intact would cause more damage to the reef and the hull.There is also a chance that the USS Guardian may break up or sink if crews tried to remove it without taking it apart first, said Captain Darryn James, a spokesman for the US Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbour. \"We really do care about being good stewards of the environment,\" he added.The Philippines is now reviewing the US plan to break the ship into pieces and remove it using floating cranes.","We struggle with the British fruit situation at this time of year \u2013 the options seem somewhat exhausted, meaning we often have to look further afield for fruity dessert inspiration. So it's a bit of a relief when the first British forced rhubarb appears in January: it's one more ingredient to slot into the pudding menu.Rhubarb has many uses outside of desserts, though; its colour and sharpness is well suited to all sorts of savoury dishes, with or without sugar added. Officially, of course, the rhubarb is a vegetable, but over the years it seems to have found itself widely considered a fruit; it's most certainly joined the pudding party.I've done a few recipes here where it can also play for the savoury team. Its acidity and texture \u2013 as long as it's not stewed to death \u2013 certainly works well with a variety of mains.Haggis with bashed neeps and rhubarbServes 4I know Burns Night has just passed but there is nothing to stop you serving haggis any time of the year \u2013 and we often continue celebrating a bit before and after the birthday anyway.At the restaurant, we buy our haggis from Weatherall Foods. It is made in Dumfries by Stuart Houston, and beats a lot of the haggis I've tried over the years.A good-quality haggis weighing about 600-800g700-800g swede, peeled and cut into chunksSalt and freshly ground black pepper100g butterFor the sauce2 shallots, peeled and finely choppedA good knob of butter2tsp flour\u00bdtsp tomato pur\u00e9eA good splash of whiskey250ml beef stockA couple of sticks of rhubarb, cut into rough 1cm chunksPlace the haggis in a pan of water and simmer gently for about 30 minutes. While the haggis is cooking, make the sauce: melt the butter in a thick-bottomed pan and gently cook the shallots for 2-3 minutes until lightly coloured. Add the flour and tomato pur\u00e9e and stir well over a low heat for a minute. Gradually add the whiskey and stock, stirring to avoid lumps forming. Bring to the boil and simmer gently for about 20-25 minutes, giving the occasional whisk, until the sauce has reduced by about two-thirds and thickened. Add the rhubarb and simmer for another minute or so until the rhubarb is cooked but has a bit of bite to it.Meanwhile, cook the swede in lightly salted water until tender, then drain and coarsely mash with butter and season to taste.To serve, spoon the neeps on to warmed serving plates, cut the haggis open and scoop a good, large spoonful out on to the neeps; then spoon the sauce over and around.The rhubarb triangleServes 4As you may or may not know, the majority of our rhubarb historically came from the rhubarb triangle in Yorkshire, which is an area between Bradford, Leeds and Wakefield.As a nod to this famous rhubarb-growing area I thought a triangular tart would fit the bill. It's dead simple, this \u2013 as long as you can draw an equilateral triangle, that is\u2026You can serve this with ice-cream, clotted cream or whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, ginger or even a dash of Kingston Black cider brandy.Approx 150g butter puff pastry, rolled to about \u00bccm thick500-550g medium-sized, deep red rhubarb4tbsp caster sugarFor the syrupTrimmings from the rhubarb2tbsp caster sugarPreheat the oven to 220C/gas mark 7. Cut four 13-14cm-sided equilateral triangles and put them on to a non-stick or heavy baking tray, spacing them out well.Cut the rhubarb into 12-13cm lengths and lay them around the triangle about \u00bdcm from the edges of the puff pastry and as close together as you can, cutting the rhubarbf down as you get towards the middle.Sprinkle the caster sugar evenly over the rhubarb and bake the triangles for 15-20 minutes until the pastry is crisp. The rhubarb shouldn't be allowed to colour too much \u2013 if it starts to, turn the oven down.Meanwhile, put the rhubarb trimmings in a pan along with the sugar and a tablespoon of water and simmer for 8-10 minutes, stirring every so often. Strain the liquid through a fine-meshed sieve, pushing it through with the back of a spoon into a clean pan.You can leave the bits of rhubarb in the sieve to cool, and then stir into some whipped cream to serve with it too, if you like.Boil the liquid until it has reduced by about half and has begun to thicken. Remove from the heat and leave the syrupy liquid to cool.Serve with your choice of toppings and spoon the syrup around.Duck breast with sweet and sour rhubarbServes 4Duck has lots of classic fruity partners but rhubarb often isn't one of them. I'm not sure why \u2013 for me, it's a perfect marriage.You can use a whole duck for this, or duck breasts, which are readily available in butchers and supermarkets.4 duck breasts weighing about 160-200g eachSalt and freshly ground black pepper150-200g rhubarb2tbsp cider vinegar2tbsp granulated sugarA couple of good knobs of butterCut the rhubarb into batons, roughly 6-7cm x \u00bdcm wide. Season the duck breasts, heat a heavy frying pan and cook the breast with the skin down for about 5 minutes on a medium heat, pouring off any fat as it's cooking, which you can save for roast potatoes. Turn the breasts over and cook for another 4-5 minutes, keeping them nice and pink.Meanwhile, heat the vinegar in a wide pan with the sugar and a tablespoon of water and stir until the sugar has dissolved.Add the rhubarb and butter and simmer for 30 seconds with a lid on, then remove the rhubarb with a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate.Continue simmering the liquid until you have just a couple of tablespoons; then mix with the rhubarb and remove from the heat.To serve, cut the duck breasts into 7 or 8 slices, vertically, and arrange on warmed serving plates. Spoon the rhubarb and syrup on top.Chicken livers on toast with rhubarbServes 4Offal and rhubarb? Why not? A bit of sweet and sour really cuts through the richness of the livers, rather like a citrus fruit. You could also serve this without the toast, and just have a few salad leaves with it.250-300g fresh chicken livers, cleanedA little rapeseed or vegetable oil for frying100g butter2 shallots, peeled, halved and finely choppedA couple of sticks of rhubarb, finely diced100ml sherrySalt and freshly ground black pepper4 x 1cm slices of bread from a small bloomer-type loaf or ciabattaSeason the livers, heat a little oil in a large frying pan until it begins to smoke, and brown the livers quickly in one or two batches, depending on the size of your frying pan; then transfer to a plate.Wipe out the pan with some kitchen roll, melt half of the butter and quickly cook the rhubarb and shallots for a couple of minutes without colouring. Add the sherry and whisk in the rest of the butter.Meanwhile, toast the bread. Return the livers to the pan and re-heat for a minute. Re-season, if necessary, then spoon on to the hot toast.","1. Double-Duty face moisturiser\u00a328, Jack Black, boots.comWinter saps the moisture out of your skin, so keep it locked in with this product from Jack Black. It's oil free and has an SPF 20 to help prevent sun damage.2. Skin Energy moisturiser\u00a38.99, Nivea for Men, boots.comLate nights can leave your skin looking tired and dull so if you're the type of chap who likes to burn the candle at both ends then try the new Skin Energy product from Nivea.3. Daily Moisturiser Boost\u00a329, Elemis, johnlewis.co.ukThis lightweight moisturiser immediately hydrates skin and also helps to soothe skin post shaving. The inclusion of citrus oils also helps to tone and revitalise the skin.4. Ultimate Moisture\u00a37.99, Neutrogena, boots.comDry, run-down skin sometimes feels as though, in order to recover, it requires a continual application of moisture. All hail then this intense, long-lasting moisturiser.5. Facial Fuel Transformer age-correcting gel\u00a327, Kiehl's, kiehls.co.ukThis is packed with blue algae which helps combat skins roughness and added vitamin E aids hydration. The lightweight-gel doesn't leave an oily residue, either.6. Active Energising Concentrate\u00a351, Shiseido Men, houseoffraser.co.ukThis promises to help to reduce your pores and make you look younger in just four weeks.7. Protect &amp; Perfect Intense anti-aging moisturiser\u00a323, No7 for Men, boots.comThis is a very hydrating product which is perhaps not the best thing to use if you have excessively oily skin. A little goes a long way.8. Moisturiser Hydrate\u00a38.99, Dove Men, boots.comThis moisturiser from Dove is specially formulated for men's skin. Easily absorbed, it also contains an SPF15 to protect against harmful UVA rays from the sun.9. Maximum Hydrator\u00a328, Clinique for Men, clinique.co.ukDry, flaky skin is never a good look; that's why this intensive moisturiser from Clinique is perfect for your dried out epidermis. It's also great to use on freshly shaved skin.10. Hydra Sensitive\u00a39.99, L'Oreal Men Expert, boots.comA good moisturiser that helps to protect you from the drying effects of a daily shave. It has added minerals to protect against pollution, too."]},{"x":0.267851128381638,"y":0.404517492319639,"no_docs":9,"words":[{"prob":0.00124071453080981,"word":"food"},{"prob":3.92219797580821e-05,"word":"products"},{"prob":0.000104772753804033,"word":"meat"},{"prob":1.75081499859094e-05,"word":"found"},{"prob":0.000126493802111972,"word":"dna"},{"prob":0.0013979448591519,"word":"horse"},{"prob":1.75081499859094e-05,"word":"tesco"}],"docs":["Supermarket giant Tesco has placed full-page adverts in a number of national newspapers apologising to customers for selling beef burgers containing horse meat.It has also promised to refund customers who bought the contaminated products, and said sorry for the \"unacceptable\" situation.The apology came as a food expert claimed horse meat could have been in beef burgers for years, but remained undetected because of insufficient food regulation.The UK's food watchdog, the Food Standards Agency (FSA), is also considering taking legal action against companies at the centre of the scandal.Tesco promised refunds to customers who had bought the contaminated products, which it identified as Tesco Everyday Value 8 x Frozen Beef Burgers (397g), Tesco 4 x Frozen Beef Quarter Pounders (454g), and a branded product, Flamehouse Frozen Chargrilled Quarter Pounders.In the advertisement, entitled \"We apologise\", Tesco says: \"While the FSAI (Food Safety Authority of Ireland) has said that the products pose no risk to public health, we appreciate that, like us, our customers will find this absolutely unacceptable.\"It continues: \"We have immediately withdrawn from sale all products from the supplier in question, from all our stores and online... We and our supplier have let you down and we apologise.\"The advert concludes: \"So here's our promise. We will find out exactly what happened and, when we do, we'll come back and tell you.\"And we will work harder than ever with all our suppliers to make sure this never happens again.\"The apology came as a reported \u00a3300 million was wiped off Tesco's stock market value.The FSA said it would consult relevant local authorities and the Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) over whether to take action against any organisations embroiled in the controversy.But the organisation was criticised for not carrying out tests in the past because horse meat posed no threat to public health, the Daily Telegraph said.Tim Lang, a professor of food policy at City University in London told the newspaper: \"It could have been going on for years but we wouldn't know about it because we have never conducted tests.\"For too long we have had light-touch regulation. The Food Standards Agency has to be institutionalised into taking a more critical approach. They have to work on the assumption that things could go wrong.\"After a meeting with food industry representatives, the FSA said it would continue its review of the traceability of the food products identified in an FSAI survey, which uncovered the scandal.It also said it would try to further understand how the lower levels of horse and pig meat contamination took place and help to carry out a UK-wide study of food authenticity in meat products.Meanwhile, the food company at the centre of the scandal yesterday vowed to adopt strict DNA testing of its products to prevent a repeat.The ABP Food Group, one of Europe's biggest suppliers and processors, is being investigated by health and agriculture authorities in the UK and Ireland over the controversy.Two of its subsidiaries, Silvercrest Foods in Ireland and Dalepak Hambleton in Yorkshire, supplied beef burgers with traces of equine DNA to supermarkets, including one product classed as 29% horse.An ABP spokesman said: \"It is vital that the integrity of the supply chain is assured and we are committed to restoring consumer confidence.\"A third company, Liffey meats, based in Co Cavan, Ireland, was also found to be supplying products to supermarkets with traces of horse DNA.Suppliers in the Netherlands and Spain have been identified as the possible sources for incorrectly labelled ingredients.The results of the FSAI survey, verified in laboratories in Germany, showed low levels of horse in beef products sold in Tesco, Lidl, Aldi, Iceland and Dunnes Stores in Ireland.Some burgers were also being sold in the UK but retailers insisted all suspect brands had been taken off the shelves within hours of the findings being released yesterday evening.Prime Minister David Cameron said supermarkets had to take responsibility for what he said was an extremely disturbing case.\"This is a completely unacceptable state of affairs,\" he said.\"It is worth making the point that ultimately retailers have to be responsible for what they sell and where it has come from.\"The FSAI analysed 27 beef burger products with best before dates from last June to March 2014 with 10 of the 27 products - 37% - testing positive for horse DNA and 85% testing positive for pig DNA.Simon Coveney, Ireland's Agriculture and Food Minister, said the issue should not be seen in the same light as BSE or a dioxin scare in Irish pork meat from four years ago.\"There's no health issue here. But I'm not comfortable eating horse meat like lots of others,\" he said.\"But that's not the issue. The issue is if someone has consumed a burger and something was in that burger that they did not know about. There's no health risk with that.\"Ten million burgers have been taken off shelves as a result of the scandal.Professor Alan Reilly, head of the FSAI, insisted there is no health risk. He also said that FSAI further tests confirmed that the meats containing horse DNA did not show any traces of medications frequently given to horses.Despite the clearance over health concerns, authorities, including Prof Reilly and Mr Coveney, warned about reputational damage caused by unacceptable mislabelling for people not eating meat on religious grounds.The ABP spokesman said it was examining current contracts with its European suppliers.\"We take this matter extremely seriously and apologise for the understandable concern this issue has caused,\" he said.\"ABP Food Group companies have never knowingly bought, handled or supplied equine meat products and we acknowledge the understandable concern created as a result of the Food Safety Authority of Ireland's DNA frozen beef burger test results.\"The only burgers affected were frozen, and fresh products from the companies were not involved.\"We are shocked by the result of these tests, and are currently at a loss to explain why one test showed 29% equine DNA,\" ABP said.The company said it had sent auditors to two supplier sites on continental Europe for \"unannounced spot checks\".Results from ABP's own DNA tests are due in several days.\"While extensive and thorough safety checks are conducted on all meat products, the industry does not routinely DNA test meat products. As a result of this incident we are implementing a new testing regime for meat products which will include DNA analysis,\" the company said.Liffey Meats said it believed horse DNA was originally contained in raw ingredient marked \"bovine only\" and supplied by an EU approved factory.It said the traces of horse in three of its products were minute.\"Liffey Meats has never produced, purchased or traded any equine products,\" the company said.\"Ingredients were supplied from an EU approved plant and were certified from bovine sources only. We now believe that such imported raw ingredients were the ultimate source of the DNA traces found in some of our products.\"Liffey Meats is also DNA testing all ingredients at its Ballyjamesduff plant.Concerns have also been raised over the extent of reputational damage to Ireland's food industry, worth nine billion euro (\u00a37.48 billion) last year.\"There is a serious issue here because of that,\" Mr Coveney said.\"The most important issue here is that our systems have worked. They have flagged a problem and we have to deal with that problem and I think we need to deal with that quickly.\"The minister said he was confident buyers of Irish food would not pull the plug on deals.\"It's important to understand that most of the beef and meat product that gets exported out of Ireland is fresh meat,\" he said.A Defra spokesman said: \"Consumers should have confidence that food is exactly what it says on the label and there are strict rules requiring products to be labelled accurately.\"Defra is working with the Food Standards Agency to urgently investigate how a number of beef products on sale in the UK and Republic of Ireland were found to contain horse and pig meat.\"The investigation will trace the meat back to its source to find the cause of the contamination and any appropriate enforcement action will be taken.\"PA","Criminal prosecutions could follow an investigation into the of burgers sold by Tesco and other supermarkets, a Government minister said today.horsemeat contaminationEnvironment minister David Heath was responding in the Commons to the discovery of the meat in budget beefburgers.Answering an urgent question from Labour's shadow environment secretary Mary Creagh, he said: \"It is very important neither you, nor anyone else, talks down the British food industry at a time when the standards in that industry are of a very high level.\"Because something has been discovered in Ireland, which is serious, which may lead to criminal proceedings, does not undermine the very serious efforts which are taken by retailers, by processors and by producers in this country to ensure traceability and ensure standards of food that are available to consumers.\"In full-page adverts placed in national newspapers this morning, Tesco apologised to customers for selling the burgers.Britain\u2019s biggest supermarket chain said:\u00a0 \"While the FSAI (Food Safety Authority of Ireland) has said that the products pose no risk to public health, we appreciate that, like us, our customers will find this absolutely unacceptable.\"Aldi, Lidl and Iceland have also withdrawn frozen beefburgers from their shelves after they were found to be contaminated with horse meat.Sainsbury's, Asda and the Co-op later have some frozen products \u201cas a precaution\".The food company at the centre of the scandal said it would adopt strict DNA testing of its products to prevent a repeat.Health and agriculture authorities in the UK and Ireland are investigating the ABP Food Group, one of Europe's biggest suppliers and processors.Two of its subsidiaries, Silvercrest Foods in Ireland and Dalepak Hambleton in Yorkshire, supplied beef burgers with traces of equine DNA to supermarkets, including one product classed as 29 per cent horse.An ABP spokesman said: \"It is vital that the integrity of the supply chain is assured and we are committed to restoring consumer confidence.\"A third company, Liffey meats, based in Co Cavan, Ireland, was also found to be supplying products to supermarkets with traces of horse DNA.Suppliers in the Netherlands and Spain have been identified as the possible sources for incorrectly labelled ingredients.Food experts said that cheaper horse flesh may have been used by Continental companies to bulk up more expensive beef during the downturn.They described the presence of traces of horsemeat and pork in burgers sold by five British and Irish supermarket chains as an alarming breach of controls introduced in the wake of the BSE crisis.Tim Lang, Professor of Food Policy at City University London, one of the country\u2019s foremost food experts, said: \u201cSo far as we know, there are no safety implications, but it does raise deep concerns. Firstly, is it fraud?\u00a0 No label declared the horsemeat or traces of pig DNA.\u00a0\u201cSecondly, it appears to be adulteration, a cheaper meat being substituted for a more expensive one. Thirdly, and probably most importantly, this exposes failings in commercial food governance.\u00a0\u201cBig retailers are supposedly in control of the food system, yet their management and contracts and specifications have been found wanting. If I was on their boards of directors I\u2019d want an overhaul of their commercial governance on meat products.\u201dMichael Walker, a consultant at international food analysts LGC, said human error could have been to blame for the adulteration given that horsemeat was a legitimate part of the supply chain on the Continent, where traditional recipes for salami and salami-type products sometimes included wild boar, horse and donkey.He added: \u201cHowever, given the financial climate, it is also possible that fraud \u2013 including cheaper meats to \u2018bulk up\u2019 the main constituent meat product - is involved.\u201dHe went on: \u201cIf fraud was involved there is a risk that those checks were ignored, resulting in unknown possibilities of microbiological and chemical hazards such as food poisoning and veterinary drug residues.\u201dFraud is estimated to account for as much as 10 per cent of food sales, with common examples including Vietnamese catfish being passed off as cod, ordinary olive oil as extra virgin and vegetable fat as mozzarella.Three years ago The Independent revealed how suppliers in the Netherlands, Spain and Germany were bulking out chicken exported to Britain with protein from pig and beef gristle and bones.Stephen Rossides, director of the British Meat Processors Association, said: \u201cThe great bulk of food products, including meat and meat products, are safe, produced to good quality standards and correctly described and labelled by food manufacturers. But this episode - rare and unusual though it is - undermines consumer confidence and trust in the meat industry, and causes reputational damage to it.\u201cWe must get to the bottom of what went wrong and why, and how such an incident can be prevented in the future.\u201d","Badgers are being blamed for putting a village at risk by digging through its flood defences.Parish leaders in Congresbury, North Somerset, are calling on the Environment Agency to stop the badgers from burrowing in the riverside defences, which they say are consequently leaking water.Despite a concrete bank and a piece of metal sheeting that stretches 60 metres along the banks of the River Yeo, the council said they believe the animals have found a way around these and are continuing to burrow there.Local residents said the problem became more noticeable during the recent bad weather and that gaps have started to appear near the Millennium Bridge.But the Environment Agency - which is responsible for the flood defences - said it has no current concerns that badger activity is affecting them.Parish councillor Ken Hill told the Bristol Post: \"Obviously we are concerned that if this (burrowing) is allowed to continue, it could weaken the riverbanks and the flood defences.\"We have had very high water levels recently and the flood defences have been very successful in protecting homes and businesses in the village. We want them to stay that way.\"The River Yeo has flooded on a number of occasions and during 2012 the river reached some of its highest levels ever.A badger sett had to be removed during the building of the Millennium Bridge 15 years ago, with the animals moved back after it was completed.Environment Agency spokesman Paul Gainey said there had been a problem with badgers burrowing last year, but measures had been put in place to stop it.\"The decision was taken we would not move the sett, as they will just come back, so we needed to stop them weakening the bank,\" he said.\"What was happening was the badgers behind the flood defence were burrowing and weakening the flood bank, so we put in a concrete bank, but they burrowed under that.\"We then put in some interlocking metal sheeting, and we think that has solved the problem.\"There has been some discussion whether this is still a problem and we've done examinations of the flood bank - and because of the recent heavy rainfall we had in November, we're investigating whether the bank has been displaced by that - but we are not aware the badger problem has struck again.\"He added the Environment Agency would continue to monitor the situation.PA","The only part of the pig you don't use is the squeal: so goes the abattoir truism. For slaughterhouses and food processors, this is given added force by the fact that the leftover bits of a carcass \u2013 including the intestines and other innards \u2013 are often the most profitable.As the row continues over just how some beef burgers in Britain and Ireland came to contain up to 29 per cent horse DNA, we are all thinking more about precisely what goes into our food.\"There are differing qualities in meat,\" says Dr Patrick Wall, associate professor of public health at University College Dublin School of Public Health.\"The fifth quarter of the animal [what remains after the carcass has been divided into two fore- and two hindquarters] is often the most profitable. Nothing goes to waste. It is perfectly safe, but there are definitely tiers of quality.\"On Friday, Larry Goodman, founder and executive chairman of ABP Food Group, at the centre of the horsemeat furore, said his company was not to blame for the scandal \u2013 which has led to the recall of more than 10 million burgers. He said he believed the contamination resulted from a hamburger filler sourced from a supplier on the Continent. And while food contamination, whether deliberate or accidental, is not new, there are suspicions that fierce supermarket battles to drive down prices have contributed to the cutting of corners. Recent scandals have included pollock being passed off as cod and chicken fillets filled with water.Cost savings and practicality also see other animal parts, such as glands, stomachs and abdomens, being used in\u00a0everyday foods \u2013 from cheese to ice-cream, and apple sauce to yoghurt. However, they have all passed strict European food hygiene rules and are perfectly edible.But why are we using these, as well as so many food additives and preservatives, in our food? The answer is cost and convenience.\"The thing that drives the market is price,\" says Dr Ruth Fairchild, a food scientist and senior lecturer at Cardiff School of Health Sciences at Cardiff Metropolitan University. \"In the UK, people want to go for their main shop once a week and perhaps pick up things now and again during the week. In France and other European countries, they do it every day. That is why we use additives and preservatives. People expect their bread to be soft after five days.\"Dr Wall believes that the outcome of the horsemeat fiasco could be the creation of a threshold for traces of\u00a0cross-contamination in meat products. DNA testing to prove authenticity would prove very costly, he says, and it is impossible to eradicate completely trace contaminations \u2013 which can occur when two types of meat are stored or prepared in the same area, even days apart.But while the scandal has undoubtedly damaged confidence, with\u00a0Tesco taking out national advertising to apologise for selling beefburgers containing horsemeat, the issue of whether horsemeat, considered a luxury in other European countries, is better for you nutritionally is still being debated. \"If you put a beefburger up against a horse burger, that would be interesting,\" Dr Wall says. \"But I think citizens don't fully understand all the things that go into [burgers] at the cheaper end of the food chain.\"Tough to swallow1) Beetle juiceApple sauce \u2013 carminic acidThe red pigment comes from the dried and crushed female cochineal insect native to South America and Mexico. Reportedly, 70,000 beetles are killed to produce one pound of the red dye. Used in Starbucks Strawberries &amp; Cr\u00e8me Frappuccino. The coffee chain is to switch to another ingredient.2) Slime cream coneIce-cream \u2013 gelatinA protein made from boiled skin, tendons, ligaments and bones of cows and pigs, it is also found in jelly, yoghurt, cosmetics and in the making of India ink. It is popular with synchronised swimmers who use it to hold their hair in place as gelatin does not dissolve in cold water.3) Gland sandwichCheese \u2013 lipaseCheese is a magnet for nasty ingredients, with some made with the blood of slaughtered animals. Others use lipase, an enzyme from the stomachs and tongue glands of calves and lambs, or rennet, an enzyme from calves' stomachs. Veggie cheeses use synthetic substitutes.4) Ground sugarSugar \u2013 bone charKnown as bone black, ivory black, animal charcoal, or abaiser, bone char is a granular material produced by charring animal bones. It is then used by some companies to turn sugar white after the sugar is heated into a liquid and passed through the bone char to filter.5) Pep upVitamins \u2013 pepsinAn enzyme from pigs' stomachs, pepsin is used in vitamin supplements and is also used in the leather industry to remove hair and residual tissue from hides. It also aids the recovery of silver from discarded photographic films by digesting the gelatin that holds the silver.6) Gland coloursFood colouring \u2013 castoreumFrom perineal glands of the North American beaver and the European beaver, castoreum is also used to treat many different ailments, including headaches, fever and hysteria. The Romans believed the fumes produced by burning castoreum could induce an abortion.7) Grease gumChewing gum \u2013 lanolinFor sheep, its purpose is to waterproof and protect the wool, but lanolin, a yellow waxy substance secreted by the glands of sheep and other wool-bearing animals, is also used in gum. It can also be used as a balm to treat chapped lips, while baseball players soften and break in their gloves with it.8) Spitting feathersBread \u2013 L-cysteineAn amino acid made from human\u00a0hair or duck feathers, L-cysteine has been used in bread as a softener and even proposed as a preventative or antidote for some of the negative effects of alcohol, including liver damage and hangovers.9) SlushiSushi \u2013 tuna scrapeThe back-meat of tuna, scraped off bones, is the part of the fish that remains after the fillets have been removed. It is spooned out and ground down into the fish product and used inside the rice in a sushi roll.10) Hmmm bugsSweets \u2013 shellacMore generally used by industry. Commonly called a \"resinous glaze\" or \"confectioners' glaze\", shellac comes from the female lac bug, which is common in the forests of India and Thailand. It also doubles as a tough primer and sealant.11) Pulp frictionBreakfast cereal \u2013 celluloseMade from pulped wood, cellulose is stuffed into shredded cheese, salad dressing and ice-cream to thicken it without adding calories or fat. But it is fibrous, appearing in many high-fibre snacks and breakfast cereals. Often used in place of much dearer oil or flour.12) Fish headBeer \u2013 fish bladdersA form of collagen, isinglass, made from fish bladders, is widely used in beer brewing. It works with the beer's yeast to make a much clearer brew. It is also used to clear wines. Originally made from sturgeon, cod has been used as a cheaper substitute.","Tesco has dropped the supplier at the centre of its horse burger scandal over a \u201cbreach of trust\u201d.The supermarket was forced to issue a public apology earlier this month after tests discovered traces of the animal in beef products.It has now vowed to introduce a new DNA testing system designed to detect any \"deviation from our high standards\".Today Tesco accepted responsibility for the fiasco but appeared to pin much of the blame on its supplier.It said Silvercrest failed to comply with company policy, sourcing meat from abroad.Tim Smith, Tesco's technical director, said: \"We now understand - with as much certainty as possible - what happened.\"The evidence tells us that our frozen burger supplier, Silvercrest, used meat in our products that did not come from the list of approved suppliers we gave them.\"Nor was the meat from the UK or Ireland, despite our instruction that only beef from the UK and Ireland should be used in our frozen beefburgers.\"Consequently we have decided not to take products from that supplier in future. We took that decision with regret but the breach of trust is simply too great.\"The supermarket found itself at the centre of controversy on January 16 after it emerged horse meat had found its way into stores in both the UK and Ireland.The disclosure sparked a national outcry and 10 million burgers were taken off the shelves.Tests in Ireland discovered three lines of frozen beefburgers contained up to 29% horse DNA from Poland.The retailer said its own investigations were consistent with the findings.Today it promised to set a \"new standard\".Mr Smith said: \"Ultimately Tesco is responsible for the food we sell, so it is not enough just to stop using the supplier.\"We have a well-equipped, expert technical team and world-class checks in place but we will not take anything for granted after this incident.\"It has shown that, in spite of our stringent tests, checks and controls there remained a small possibility that something could go wrong and it did. We want to stop it ever happening again, so we are taking action to reduce that possibility still further.\"To underpin the strong measures already in place, we will now introduce a comprehensive system of DNA testing across our meat products. This will identify any deviation from our high standards.\"These checks will set a new standard.\"It will be a significant investment for Tesco, borne by Tesco. We want to leave customers in no doubt that we will do whatever it takes to ensure the quality of their food and that the food they buy is exactly what the label says it is.\"The horse meat debacle was not unique to Tesco but extended to Dunnes Stores, Lidl, Aldi and Iceland where products were also found to contain low levels of equine DNA.It deepened further last week when it emerged a potentially carcinogenic drug may have entered the food chain following the slaughter of horses in the UK.Shadow environment secretary Mary Creagh told the Commons that some of these animals tested positive for the carcinogen phenylbutazone, commonly known as bute.She said: \"I am in receipt of evidence showing that several horses slaughtered in UK abattoirs last year tested positive for phenylbutazone, or bute, a drug which causes cancer in humans and is banned from the human food chain.\"It is possible that those animals entered the human food chain.\"The Commons Environment Committee is due to take evidence on the contamination of beef products with horse meat later today.Food which tested positive was found to have been produced by Liffey Meats and Silvercrest Foods in Ireland and the UK plant, Dalepak Hambleton.PA","Tesco has dropped the supplier at the centre of its horse burger scandal over a \u201cbreach of trust\u201d.The supermarket was forced to issue a public apology earlier this month after tests discovered traces of the animal in beef products.It has now vowed to introduce a new DNA testing system designed to detect any \"deviation from our high standards\".Today Tesco accepted responsibility for the fiasco but appeared to pin much of the blame on its supplier.It said Silvercrest failed to comply with company policy, sourcing meat from abroad.Tim Smith, Tesco's technical director, said: \"We now understand - with as much certainty as possible - what happened.\"The evidence tells us that our frozen burger supplier, Silvercrest, used meat in our products that did not come from the list of approved suppliers we gave them.\"Nor was the meat from the UK or Ireland, despite our instruction that only beef from the UK and Ireland should be used in our frozen beefburgers.\"Consequently we have decided not to take products from that supplier in future. We took that decision with regret but the breach of trust is simply too great.\"The supermarket found itself at the centre of controversy on January 16 after it emerged horse meat had found its way into stores in both the UK and Ireland.The disclosure sparked a national outcry and 10 million burgers were taken off the shelves.Tests in Ireland discovered three lines of frozen beefburgers contained up to 29% horse DNA from Poland.The retailer said its own investigations were consistent with the findings.Today it promised to set a \"new standard\".Mr Smith said: \"Ultimately Tesco is responsible for the food we sell, so it is not enough just to stop using the supplier.\"We have a well-equipped, expert technical team and world-class checks in place but we will not take anything for granted after this incident.\"It has shown that, in spite of our stringent tests, checks and controls there remained a small possibility that something could go wrong and it did. We want to stop it ever happening again, so we are taking action to reduce that possibility still further.\"To underpin the strong measures already in place, we will now introduce a comprehensive system of DNA testing across our meat products. This will identify any deviation from our high standards.\"These checks will set a new standard.\"It will be a significant investment for Tesco, borne by Tesco. We want to leave customers in no doubt that we will do whatever it takes to ensure the quality of their food and that the food they buy is exactly what the label says it is.\"The horse meat debacle was not unique to Tesco but extended to Dunnes Stores, Lidl, Aldi and Iceland where products were also found to contain low levels of equine DNA.It deepened further last week when it emerged a potentially carcinogenic drug may have entered the food chain following the slaughter of horses in the UK.Shadow environment secretary Mary Creagh told the Commons that some of these animals tested positive for the carcinogen phenylbutazone, commonly known as bute.She said: \"I am in receipt of evidence showing that several horses slaughtered in UK abattoirs last year tested positive for phenylbutazone, or bute, a drug which causes cancer in humans and is banned from the human food chain.\"It is possible that those animals entered the human food chain.\"The Commons Environment Committee is due to take evidence on the contamination of beef products with horse meat later today.Food which tested positive was found to have been produced by Liffey Meats and Silvercrest Foods in Ireland and the UK plant, Dalepak Hambleton.PA","Burger King has admitted finding small traces of horse DNA in the meat used for its burgers.Following revelations that contaminated meat was being used by supplier Silvercrest to make its burgers, the fast food giant has been using approved suppliers from Germany and Italy as a precaution.While Burger King\u2019s own checks on meat in its restaurants were negative, four samples taken from the Silvercrest plant in Co Monaghan tested positive for horse DNA.Irish authorities said that its investigations have traced filler product used in the burger processing facility to a supplier in Poland. It contained a mixture of beef and horse offcuts.Burger King said the failure to deliver 100 per cent British and Irish beef patties was a violation of contracts, and said it would no longer be doing business with the firm.Diego Beamonte, vice president, global quality, at Burger King Corporation, apologised to customers over the controversy.\u201cWhile the Food Safety Authority of Ireland has stated that this is not a food safety issue, we are deeply troubled by the findings of our investigation and apologise to our guests, who trust us to source only the highest quality 100 per cent beef burgers,\u201d he said.\u201cOur supplier has failed us and in turn we have failed you. We are committed to ensuring that this does not happen again.\u201dThe Silvercrest plant, part of the Larry Goodman owned ABP Food Group, has also lost contracts with supermarkets Tesco, Aldi and the Co-operative Group.The Ballybay processing factory, closed since the scandal broke two weeks ago, employed 112 people.Experts from the Food Standards Agency (FSA) told the Commons Environment Committee on Tuesday that they cannot be sure if the contaminated burgers were being sold for more than a year. At least 10 million burgers were put into storage following the scandal.","One of the Prison Service\u2019s meat suppliers was suspended last night after it was found Halal pies and pasties were contaminated with pork.Ministers described the contamination as \u201cunacceptable\u201d and ordered an immediate investigation. The pies and pasties came from a supplier which had certification that supposedly assured buyers the meat was Halal.According to Islamic law, special measures must be taken in animal slaughter and meat preparation, including cutting the animal\u2019s throat cleanly and dedicating it to Allah.\u00a0 Pork is proscribed, so the discovery that the contamination came from pigs will amplify the anger and hurt caused.Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, welcomed the Ministry of Justice\u2019s apology and investigation and said: \u201cThis is not a matter of dietary preference but of Islamic law. This lapse will have offended and distressed high numbers of Muslim prisoners and their families; so apologising, suspending the supplier and investigating the incident are the right steps for the Ministry of Justice to take.\u201dJeremy Wright, the Justice minister, said: \u201cThis is an unacceptable situation and one which we regret greatly. Clearly this must be distressing for those affected and they can be reassured we are doing everything we can to resolve the situation. The Prison Service is investigating this as a matter of urgency.\u201dDavid Heath, Food and Farming minister, said: \u201cPeople have a right to expect that the food they are eating is correctly described.\u201cI have made it clear that I want an urgent meeting with major retailers and suppliers first thing next week to get to the bottom of this.\u201dAll prisons have been informed but the name and location of the supplier were not revealed. The Food Standards Agency confirmed the contamination came from pork and an inquiry has begun to see if the contaminated food has been distributed more widely.A spokeswoman said: \u201cWe have called an urgent meeting of the big retailers and suppliers on Monday to ensure everyone is fully aware of their responsibilities.\u201cIt is the responsibility of food businesses to ensure the food they sell contains what it says on the label. We are considering, with relevant local authorities whether legal action is appropriate following the investigation.\u201d","The company responsible for supplying halal food found to contain traces of pork DNA was named today.Food distributor 3663 identified McColgan Quality Foods Limited, a Northern Ireland-based company, as the source of \"the very small number of Halal savoury beef pastry products\" found to contain pork DNA which it supplied to prisons.The Northern Ireland company said it was co-operating with Food Standards Agency.3663 confirmed that all Halal products from McColgan Quality Foods Limited had been withdrawn from supply.In a statement they said: \"3663 would like to clarify that the very small number of Halal savoury beef pastry products that have been withdrawn from supply were only ever distributed to custodial establishments.\"The products in question are from one particular food manufacturer, McColgan Quality Foods Limited, and have not been distributed to any other customer.\"All Halal products from this manufacturer have been withdrawn,\" the company said.Islamic law forbids the consumption of pork.McColgan Quality Foods - based in Strabane, County Tyrone - appears on an invest Northern Ireland-backed website and is said to be \"approved for the preparation of Halal product\".The website lists McColgan customers to be popular supermarket brands including Lidl, Nisa, Spar and Costcutter.It states McColgan specialises in \"a wide range of chilled &amp; frozen, sweet &amp; savoury convenience foods for retail and foodservice\".3663 - the numbers in the name corresponding to the letters \"FOOD\" on a telephone number pad - is currently contracted to distribute a wide range of products including ambient, frozen, fresh and chilled foods to the MoJ, all sourced from fully accredited and approved manufacturers and producers.Following the horse meat scandal, 3663 recognised a potential connection between a Halal beef producer mentioned within the FSAI (Food Safety Authority of Ireland) report and a supplier of Halal savoury beef pastry products stocked for the MoJ.3663 informed the MoJ of the potential connection as a precautionary measure, then took the decision that these Halal savoury beef pastry products should be quarantined to prevent their use pending DNA testing.3663 initiated DNA testing on multiple production batches of the Halal savoury beef pastry products from McColgan and \"disappointingly\" received evidence that within the products tested there were traces of porcine protein.The company have removed all Halal products from McColgan from the supply chain and said they will not source any further Halal products from them.In the statement, 3662 said: \"Our sentiments echo those of the Ministry of Justice in that this is a wholly unacceptable situation and one that we deeply regret.\"We are, however, relieved that our own prompt actions following identifying a potential risk from the FSAI report enabled the earliest possible removal of these products from sale.\"A spokesman for McColgan's said in a statement: \"McColgan's can confirm that it is proactively co-operating with the Food Standards Agency and its local representatives following the discovery of trace elements of porcine DNA in a limited number of halal-certified pastry products which are supplied to 3663 as part of its contract to The Prison Service.\"McColgan's has already taken swift measures to identify, isolate and withdraw all of the products which are supplied to The Prison Service while an investigation to determine the circumstances surrounding this deeply regrettable and unforeseen incident takes place.\"McColgan's is keen to stress that at no point has pork of any kind been included in the recipes of any of the halal-certified products it supplies.\""]},{"x":0.372286250854824,"y":0.307106696224313,"no_docs":20,"words":[{"prob":4.45087322271864e-05,"word":"party"},{"prob":1.27413192465e-05,"word":"mr"},{"prob":1.27413192465e-05,"word":"golden"},{"prob":1.27413192465e-05,"word":"secretary"},{"prob":0.00281887456973509,"word":"mps"},{"prob":2.8800520378284e-05,"word":"government"},{"prob":1.27413192465e-05,"word":"dawn"}],"docs":["Chancellor Angela Merkel's ruling coalition partners were on course to secure a wafer-thin one-seat majority in Lower Saxony last night, in a ballot seen as a bellwether for the autumn general election.In a surprise result, Ms Merkel's liberal Free Democrat partners in government re-entered parliament in Germany's second most populous state, despite widespread fears that the party would fail to secure the necessary 5 per cent of the vote to retain seats.The outcome was expected to lead to the reinstatement of Ms Merkel's candidate in Lower Saxony \u2013 the conservative state prime minister David McAllister, whose father was born in Glasgow and who ran his election campaign with the slogan \"Merkel's Mac\".Exit poll results suggested the Free Democrats would gain more than 10 per cent of the vote \u2013 a result which would enable them to form a new state government with Ms Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats, who did worse than expected by winning only 36 per cent of the vote.\"The result shows that Ms Merkel's government stands a good chance of staying in power after the September general election,\" a Free Democrat party spokesman said after polling closed.Mr McAllister, 41, has been tipped as a successor to Ms Merkel.","The race to succeed Pascal Lamy as director general of the World Trade Organisation hots up this week as nine contenders make opening pitches to its 157 international members.The candidates, who include academics, politicians and diplomats from Indonesia, Jordan and Brazil, will be looking to impress members by outlining the challenges to the 18-year-old body dedicated to opening up the world to free trade.Mr Lamy has held the top job for two terms, totalling eight years. His successor must be named by May.The British Government will be hopeful that Mr Lamy's replacement will be more upbeat on the UK's future trading relationship with Europe.Last week, the 65-year-old Frenchman was guarded about David Cameron's decision to call a referendum over EU membership. \"Whether a change in the relationship between the UK and Europe would change the trade relationship remains to be seen,\" he said.This is the most crowded field ever assembled to take over the WTO job and, for the first time, includes three women.Ladbrokes named Tim Groser and Anabel Gonzalez (pictured), the trade ministers of New Zealand and Costa Rica, as joint favourites at 3-1.Mr Groser is thought to be favoured among developed nations, but countries like India are believed to be pushing for someone from an emerging economy as the balance of global financial power shifts.","David Laws is the Liberal Democrats' man for all seasons. He sits at the heart of government, his office perched above the security-protected connecting door between Nick Clegg's Cabinet Office base and 10 Downing Street. He regularly attends meetings of the Quad, where the Coalition's big decisions are thrashed out by David Cameron, George Osborne, Mr Clegg and Danny Alexander. As well as being a Cabinet Office minister who attends the full Cabinet, Mr Laws is Michael Gove's deputy at the Department for Education. And he has just been put in charge of the Liberal Democrats' manifesto for the next general election.The array of roles shows how the former banker at JP Morgan and Barclays has bounced back since returning to the Government last September. In 2010, his Cabinet career was interrupted after 17 days as Chief Treasury Secretary by revelations about his parliamentary expenses. Mr Clegg could not wait to get him back at his side, and Mr Laws was equally impatient to return.\"The advantages [of being outside government] were fairly well disguised,\" he quipped.His forensic mind ranges across policies way beyond his education brief.Mr Laws' manifesto role will mark a crucial stage in the Liberal Democrats' transition from a party of perpetual opposition to one that can be a partner in government. His message to his party is clear: no more unrealistic pledges like the 2010 commitment to phase out university tuition fees, which it never expects to have to implement.His stance could put him on a collision course with Liberal Democrat activists, who have a real say over the manifesto in what remains a democratic party.There is already pressure from some for the 2015 manifesto to cut the cap on tuition fees to \u00a36,000 a year.Mr Laws said the party is \"nowhere near\" a decision and insisted that the new system needed to \"bed down\".Although the latest figures suggest university applications have dropped, the numbers he will study most closely will be those about students from disadvantaged backgrounds.His manifesto message is also aimed at the Conservatives and Labour. It is a sign that the Liberal Democrats' self-confidence rating is a lot higher than their standing in the opinion polls. The big two parties will aim for power alone, and will set out a distinctive offer. Mr Laws wants them to acknowledge not only the inevitable constraints on spending but also the real prospect of another coalition.\"It's quite possible that there still won't be a single party majority after the next general election,\" he said. \"The public have a generally sceptical view of political promises, unless they can see very clearly how they are going to be paid for.\"The demands on us have to have a really rigorous set of manifesto policies with a very clear sense of what our priorities will be, will be greater than ever before.\"The Liberal Democrats' 2015 pitch is already clear. \"We don't have confidence that Labour is serious on economic policy, or that the Conservatives have a strong enough policy commitment to creating a fairer society,\" said Mr Laws.The Lib Dems have always offered both but might be taken more seriously next time. A silver lining to the cuts?\"Perhaps in the past people have known we stood for a fairer society but have wondered whether we could take some of the tough decisions on the economy. After this parliament, they will not be in any doubt about the economy and we have to go on demonstrating we are serious about a fairer society.\"Any second coalition is going to be challenging for the third party. You are either with the same party and the challenge is to make sure you continue to assert your identity. Or suddenly you are seen by the public to swap one party for another. There is no easy choice for the Lib Dems. We will be equidistant from the other two parties. Last time the [parliamentary] arithmetic was overwhelmingly the powerful factor. The public will decide it next time. Our influence will be much smaller than people tend to assume.\"In 2010, the Liberal Democrats envisaged the two coalition parties would gradually diverge as the next election got nearer.\"It has not been the straight line we expected,\" said Mr Laws. \"It is a more cyclical thing. You can have periods marked by greater disagreements and periods where there are swing-backs.\"The Coalition has matured massively in the last six months. There have been serious disagreements over Lords reform, parliamentary boundaries, Leveson, the autumn statement, climate-change policies.\"That is very healthy. It is quite possible to disagree one moment on an issue of fundamental importance and then reach agreement in a very mature and civil way on other policies.\"Although coalitions have been rare in Britain, Mr Laws argued that the Government was \"a model of decisive decision-making\". He said: \"We have shown that coalitions can be stable entities that deliver good government and radical changes. The country has absolutely nothing to fear from coalitions in future. No party will be able to frighten the electorate about the prospect of a hung parliament. In 2010 people said a coalition would collapse after five minutes and do nothing radical on policy. That is nonsense.\"Mr Laws believes the last year of the five-year parliament will see the coalition partners display \"a much greater sense of their separate identities\", but warned that they would get no credit if they spent the last 12 months \"bickering\". He hopes most big policy decisions will be completed by then. He expects Liberal Democrat ministers to stay in their posts up to polling day in 2015. \"To suddenly proclaim independence in the last dregs of the parliament would not be very plausible.\"The schools minister rejected calls for the ring-fencing of the Liberal Democrats' flagship pupil premium for disadvantaged children so the money cannot mask spending cuts. He will not \"handcuff\" schools and bring back \"micro-management\" by \"the man in Whitehall and Westminster.\" But he promised \"further action\" if the school inspectorate, Ofsted, finds the cash is not being used to bridge the gap between disadvantaged pupils and the rest. That could see successful heads helping other schools not using the money properly in order to spread best practice.Mr Laws gets on well with Mr Gove and broadly shares the Education Secretary's goals. But he said the Liberal Democrats would veto profit-making companies setting up free schools, a move favoured by some Tories. \"We are not going to have profit-making schools in the public sector while the Lib Dems are in government.\"The scandal over his housing allowance claims which led to his 2010 resignation stemmed from his desire to keep his homosexuality private. Now it is in the open, does Mr Laws feel a sense of relief and more comfortable in his own skin? \"Yes, after the difficult initial circumstances. The closer you can get to the truth both in your private life and in politics, the better.\"He said his relationships \"with most of the people close to me have been made easier, because a large part of my life that was secret no longer is\".Would he and his partner, James Lundie, a former Liberal Democrat press officer turned lobbyist, take advantage of the proposed law gay marriage? \"Who knows?\" Mr Laws laughed. They are not in a civil partnership.He gets a lot of letters about gay marriage from his Yeovil constituents. Some question the need for it when same-sex couples can already enter a civil partnership, but Mr Laws is passionately in favour of the change.\"Maybe in terms of technicalities it won't make a huge difference. But regardless of the details and the controversies, it is a very clear statement of equality and something the Government should be very proud of pushing through,\" he said.Quick questionsWhere was the last place you went for dinner?Kennington TandooriWhat was the last album you bought/listened to?Rufus Wainwright's \"Want\"What was the last book you read?\"The Tail\"; a collection of essays on English educationWhat was the last gig/concert you attended?Adele, HammersmithWhat was the last sporting event you attended?Yeovil Town FC vs Notts CountyWhat was the last film you saw?Skyfall","By-election shocks like the one in Bradford West last year, when Labour lost a seemingly rock solid safe seat to the maverick George Galloway could keep on happening, a new report warns.The decline of members who play any active part in the main political parties has created an undercurrent of disillusionment within seemingly safe seats that leaves them vulnerable to similar takeovers by determined campaigners in by-elections.The conclusions of an analysis by the think tank, Democratic Audit, funded by the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust, are aimed mainly at the Labour Party, though the author Lewis Baston says they could also apply in the Tory heartlands.Having completed what he says is the first comprehensive analysis of why Labour lost in Bradford, he warned: \"National politicians \u2013 and politics \u2013 must heed the lessons of Bradford West or suffer the consequences.\"There were particular factors working against Labour in Bradford West \u2013 notably the presence of a clever and charismatic opponent in George Galloway, a former Labour MP \u2013 but the defeat was also a symptom of the long-term shrinkage in political party membership. Labour Party membership peaked at around a million in the 1950s, and has stabilised during the past 10 years at just under 200,000.The fall in Conservative Party membership has been even more dramatic, from three million in the 1950s, to 177,000 by last summer.","A women\u2019s golf club founded 119 years ago has elected its first man as captain - following the introduction of the 2010 Equality Act.Wirral Ladies\u2019 Golf Club was established in 1894 with articles of association stating that all committee members should be women. It was originally paid for by golf-playing men as a gift for their wives.But now John Hughes will share the captain\u2019s office with Janet Mills at the club in Prenton, on the Wirral, Merseyside.\u201cMembers were consulted over 12 months and members expressed the opinion that joint captaincy was the best way forward,\u201d said Peter Greville, the club manager.\u201cThis is a genuine mixed club. There are more men golfers than women and the men were happy to maintain club traditions.\u201cBut this was forced on us to some extent to comply with the 2010 Equality Act.\u201dIn the late 1990s, the club moved to allow men to be meal-committee members. Following the Equality Act, men were given the vote and allowed to serve on all committees. More recent equality changes have allowed men to stand for election as chairman of various committees and three years ago the first male chairman of the management committee was appointed.","Senior figures in the coalition government are on a collision course over the fate of the \u201cgreatest black Briton\u201d, has learned.The IndependentSources close to the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said he is determined to put a stop to plans reportedly put in place by Education Minister Michael Gove to remove Mary Seacole, renowned for giving sanctuary to soldiers during the Crimean War, from the National Curriculum.Leaked documents which surfaced at the end of last month appeared to detail Mr Gove\u2019s plan to replace Seacole with more traditional, white, male historical figures; such as Admiral Lord Nelson, Winston Churchill and Oliver Cromwell. But Mr Clegg is prepared for a clash with the Education Minister to keep her on the list of classroom suggestions.Mary Seacole, who topped a poll of black Britons in 2006, appears on the Curriculum in a list of people it is suggested teachers use to illustrate the Victorian period in their classrooms. A Liberal Democrat source close to the Deputy Prime Minister said Mr Clegg \u201csupported her continued inclusion on the list\u201d when the Curriculum is rewritten.And he said that Mr Clegg was prepared to fight her case as the discussions go on. \u201cWe do not want her to be replaced. If what was put to him was that she was going to be downgraded in relation to others we wouldn\u2019t agree,\u201d the source added.According to Liberal Democrat councillor Lester Holloway, Mr Clegg has also privately insisted that the removal of Mary Seacole from the National Curriculum is \u201cnot going happen\u201d. And a group of 24 MPs from all three major parties, as well as others, have signed an Early Day Motion declaring themselves \u201cgreatly alarmed\u201d at Mr Gove\u2019s plans.Seacole\u2019s contribution during the Crimean War has been held up as one of the earliest examples of black Britons\u2019 impact on the nation\u2019s history by her proponents. Operation Black Vote started a petition against her removal earlier this month, which has been signed nearly 35,000 times.Simon Woolley, Director of Operation Black Vote, said she was one of the only black people in British history whose life was not talked about \u201cthrough the prism of racism\u201d. He said: \u201cIt is fantastically important to have people such as Mary Seacole taught in our classes.\u201d\u201cWithout the social history of people like Mary Seacole, our children, black and white, get a very distorted view of black people and of Africa. Our continent is more than a picture of extreme poverty. Our history is more than just slavery. This narrow view serves no-one in giving a full picture of collectively who we are, and how we see the world.\u201dBut others have argued that her medical achievements have been overstated for political purposes. Historian and writer Guy Walters said: \u201cShe was a very worthy woman, it would be churlish not to hold her up as a good role model. The problem is that, because of her colour and because of political need, her achievements are massively oversold.\"He said her achievements in running the British Hotel \u2013 which he likened more to a guest house than a hospital \u2013 should not be underestimated. But, he said she was someone who comforted soldiers, not a medical figure.And he argued that Seacole is a figure who is talked about \u201cin terms of race\u201d. He said: \u201cThere is no doubt that, had she been white, we would not be talking about her today and I think it is disingenuous to claim otherwise.\u201dOperation Black Vote members said they have tried unsuccessfully to set up a meeting with Mr Gove, and Mr Woolley said that Mr Clegg could also come under pressure over the issue, should he fail to deliver. \u201cI think this is very brave of the Deputy Prime Minister who has said he will no longer make pledges he knows he can\u2019t keep. Let\u2019s just hope that Gove listens to him and to the tens of thousands who want Mary Seacole on a curriculum that reflects our rich history,\u201d he said.Mr Woolley added: \u201cIf Clegg keeps his promise it will ensure not only that Mary Seacole, and Olaudah Equiano stay the National Curriculum but the principal of our rich diversity remains key to our children\u2019s education. Saving Mary Seacole equates to ensuring cultural diversity on the Curriculum.\u201dA Department for Education spokesman said: \u201cThe Department does not comment on leaks.\u201d","The US Scout movement is signalling its readiness to end a ban on gay members and leaders after a wave of protest.If approved by the Scouts' national executive board, possibly as soon as next week, the change would be another momentous milestone for America's gay-rights movement, following a surge of support for same-sex marriage and the ending of the ban on gays serving opening in military.\"The pulse of equality is strong in America, and today it beats a bit faster with news that the Boy Scouts may finally put an end to its long history of discrimination,\" said Chad Griffin of the Human Rights Campaign, a major gay-rights group.Under the proposed change the different religious and civic groups that sponsor Scout units would be able to decide for themselves how to address the issue - either maintaining an exclusion of gays, as is now required of all units, or opening up their membership.Southern Baptist leaders - who consider homosexuality a sin - were furious about the possible change and said its approval might encourage churches to support other boys' organizations instead. The Southern Baptists are among the largest sponsors of Scout units, along with the Roman Catholic, Mormon and United Methodist churches.The BSA, which celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2010, has long excluded both gays and atheists. Smith said that a change in the policy toward atheists was not being considered and that the BSA continued to view \"Duty to God\" as one of its basic principles.Protests over the no-gays policy gained momentum in 2000, when the US Supreme Court upheld the BSA's right to exclude gays. Scout units lost sponsorships by public schools and other entities that adhered to non-discrimination policies, and several local Scout councils made public their displeasure with the policy.More recently, pressure surfaced on the Scouts' own national executive board. Two high-powered members - Ernst &amp; Young chief executive James Turley and AT&amp;T boss Randall Stephenson - indicated they would try to work from within to change the membership policy, which stood in contrast to their own companies' non-discrimination policies.Amid petition campaigns by Change.org, shipping giant UPS and drug-manufacturer Merck announced that they were halting donations from their charitable foundations to the Boy Scouts as long as the no-gays policy was in force.The Scouts had reaffirmed the no-gays policy as recently as last year and appeared to have strong backing from the conservative religious denominations that sponsor large numbers of Scout units. Under the proposed change, they could continue excluding gays.AP","Nick Griffin, leader of the cash strapped far-right BNP, once fed his family on a rabbit that had been killed on the road.This was one of the strange revelations from an hour long speech he delivered in Coventry at the weekend, watched by an academic from Nottingham University.In the same speech, he urged every local BNP branch to have \u201can eBay officer\u201d \u2013 presumably to keep an eye out for bargains that could fill the party\u2019s empty coffers. He also shared a fund raising idea with his audience. \u201cWe are going to begin collecting scrap. Have you any idea of the price of copper?\u201d he said.Leaving the subject of money, Mr Griffin informed his audience: \u201cWe have produced an invaluable document, it\u2019s called \u2018what to do if you get arrested\u2019.\u201d His remarks were noted down by Matthew Goodwin, an associate professor at Nottingham University, and published online.They suggest that BNP finances have not improved since April, when the party declared that at 31 December 2010 it owed \u00a3582,961 and had \u00a315,846 in the bank. Since then, the party has seen a decline in its political fortunes.","David Cameron\u2019s hopes of winning 2015 general election suffered a big setback tonight when MPs delivered the final death blow to plans to redraw the parliamentary map.All Liberal Democrat ministers and MPs joined forces with Labour to vote against a government Bill for the first time since the Coalition was formed to scupper the introduction of new constituency boundaries that would have handed the Conservatives about 20 extra seats. The Lib Dems pulled the plug on the shake-up in retaliation at the Tories\u2019 refusal to back Nick Clegg\u2019s plans for a mainly elected House of Lords.The Commons voted by 334 to 292 not to overturn a decision by the Lords to delay until 2018 the boundary review and plans to cut the number of MPs from 650 to 600. The existing map favours Labour and the Tories will now need a much bigger lead over Labour in the share of the vote to secure an overall majority than if the new boundaries had been brought in.There were bitter recriminations as Tory MPs attacked the Lib Dems for voting against a plan included in the Coalition Agreement.\u00a0 Peter Bone, MP for Wellingborough said Lib Dem ministers should do \u201cthe honourable thing\u201d and resign from the Government. Penny\u00a0 Mordaunt, another Tory backbencher, said the Lib Dems were motivated by \u201cspite, pettiness and self-interest\u201d and were making \u201cflirtatious glances\u201d to Labour as potential coalition partners.Lib Dem MPs replied that the Tories had broken their commitments on Lords reform. One said: \u201cCoalition is a two-way street, not a pick-and-mix counter.\u201d A senior Liberal Democrat source insisted:\u00a0 \u201cThe Coalition is fine. Both sides of the coalition have known what the position is for months now. There are 101 other things the Government is doing and we will get on with those. This vote now draws a line under this issue.\u201dAndrew Lansley, the Conservative Leader of the Commons, said after the vote: \u201c The public are going to, rightly, find it difficult to understand how two years ago Parliament could vote for the number of MPs to be reduced, for the value of votes in each constituency so far as possible to be equalised by making constituencies closer to an equal number of electors, and two years later you get a different result. \u2026The Liberal Democrats in the first instance voted for the reform and today voted for that reform not to take place before the general election.\u201cThe margin of the Government\u2019s defeat was bigger than expected after four rebel Conservatives voted against the boundary review\u2014 John Baron (Basildon &amp; Billericay), Philip Davies (Shipley), David Davis (Haltemprice &amp; Howden) and Sir Richard Shepherd (Aldridge-Brownhills). Minor parties also lined up against the Tories.","Education Secretary Michael Gove\u2019s plans for a new English Baccalaureate threaten to wreck the stability of the entire examination system, MPs warn today.In a devastating criticism of the proposals, MPs on the influential Commons education select committee tell Mr Gove that the Government \u201chas not proved its case that GCSEs in the key academic subjects should be abolished\u201d.Graham Stuart, the Conservative chairman of the committee, added: \u201cWe have serious concerns about the Government\u2019s proposed timetable for change.\u201cMinisters want to introduce a new qualification, require a step-change in standards and alter the way exams are administered - all at the same time.\u00a0 We believe this is trying to do too much, too quickly and we call on the Government to balance the pace of reform with the need to get it right.\u201dToday\u2019s report, from an all-party committee of MPs, leaves Mr Gove almost without an ally in his plan to introduce the new EBacc. The committee, made up of five Conservative MPs, five Labour and one Liberal Democrat, backed the criticisms without dissent.Ministers want to start teaching for the EBacc in schools from September 2015. It will first cover English, maths and the sciences and then take in languages and the humanities - history or geography.Last night Mr Gove announced he would include computer science under the science umbrella of the EBacc in a move to stifle criticism - particularly from executive director of Google Eric Schmidt - that it was ignoring technology\u00a0 However, that left the arts lobby claiming it would ruin the creative industries in the UK if arts and drama was still excluded.In their report, the MPs say introducing so many fundamental reforms at the same time may threaten the stability of the wider examination system.They accept that GCSEs need \u201csignificant improvements\u201d to restore public confidence in the exam system\u00a0 and praise moves to introduce more end-of-course assessment and restrict resits but argue:\u00a0 \u201cThe Government still needs to make the case that the GCSE brand is so discredited that it is beyond repair.\u201dIn particular, they are worried introducing the EBacc in only the core academic subjects will lead to other areas of the curriculum - such as arts, drama and religious education - being downgraded.\u201cWe have concerns about the potential impact\u00a0 ... on subjects outside the EBacc which will be left with \u2018discredited\u2019 GCSEs for some time to come,\u201d they add.\u201cWe have not seen any evidence to suggest the proposed changes will be more successful than GCSEs in addressing under-achievement or in narrowing the attainment gap between the most disadvantaged students and their peers.\u201dThey also claim the proposals will do nothing for the 40 per cent of young people who fail to obtain five A* to C grades including English and maths. Lower attainers will be left with a \u201cstatement of achievement\u201d which the MPs warn could be akin to a \u201cbadge of failure\u201d.\u201cWe do not see how raising the bar will automatically help these young people,\u201d Mr Stuart added.The MPs also criticise the fact the plans have been drawn up before details of the new national curriculum for secondary schools has been drawn up. \u201cAt the moment there is little clarity regarding the curriculum and educational outcomes that will be required of the new qualifications,\u201d they add.Teachers\u2019 leaders last night welcomed the report with Mary Bousted, general secretary of the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, saying: \u201cThis is a devastating critique of the Government\u2019s policy.\u00a0 Michael Gove will lack any credibility if his response is \u2018I know best: carry on\u2019.\u201dStephen Twigg, Labour\u2019s education spokesman, added: \u201cMichael Gove has become the enemy of ambition.\u00a0 This damning report supports Labour\u2019s warning that the Tory-led government\u2019s changes will do nothing to improve standards, especially for low attaining pupils,\u201dA spokeswoman for the Department for Education said:\u00a0 \u201cWe have been clear that the secondary education system is in desperate need of a thorough overhaul - an objective with which the committee agrees.\u201d"," Bang. Crash. Clunk \u2026 the sound of doors being slammed shut at HSBC long after the Mexican cocaine-dealing money launderers have fled.OutlookJust look at the advisers to the newly created and snappily entitled Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee. These include the former head of the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency Bill Hughes, the former head of HMRC Dave Harnett, and former FCO counter-terrorism expert Nick Fishwick. Be afraid, be very afraid.There are no details of what these top crime-busters will be paid for attending at least four meetings a year. Of course, in relation to last year's record $1.9bn, a few grand a year to such elite advisers is but a mere bagatelle.And don't forget former US deputy attorney general Jim Comey Jnr, as a new non-executive director. I'm sure he will be worth every penny of his \u00a3125,000 fees when it comes to smoothing things with the Feds next time.","The ruling People's Party has denied that the Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, and other leaders received payments from a slush fund after a newspaper published what it said were secret party accounts going back almost two decades.El Pais said the accounts showed 11 years of payments to Mr Rajoy of \u20ac25,200 a year and regular handouts to a number of other party leaders.The report is bound to damage further the credibility of Mr Rajoy as he battles a deep recession and one of Europe's highest unemployment levels.The People's Party secretary general, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, denied the allegations and said: \"We have absolutely nothing to hide.\"","David Cameron may have more trouble with backbenchers after the revelation that tax breaks for married couples will not be included in next month's Budget.The Conservatives' 2010 manifesto pledged to introduce the tax break, which also made it into the coalition agreement.It would involve allowing one member of a married couple or civil partnership to transfer \u00a3750 of their tax-free personal allowance to their partner, would be worth around \u00a3150 a year to basic-rate taxpayers.The government's failure to bring in the tax breaks so far has angered many in the party, and a number of backbenchers have suggested the change should be included in George Osborne's Budget next month in return for their supporting controversial plans to introduce gay marriage.But a senior Government source told the that there was no such deal, and ruled out a marriage tax break featuring in this budget.Press Association\"It won't be in the Budget but it will be in this Parliament,\" the source said. \"This Budget obviously, with all that has happened in recent weeks and months, will be very much focused on growth in the economy\".Mr Cameron views the introduction of same-sex marriage - which is expected to split his MPs when it is put to a Commons vote next week - as the \"Conservative Party delivering the promise it made\".\"This is a difficult issue for some in the Conservative Party and he understands the strong feelings that people have, and of course it's a free vote,\" the source said.\"He is proud of the fact that it's a coalition government with strong Conservative participation that is bringing forward a modern and progressive change.\"Backbenchers are also said to be questioning Osborne's position, as .the economy remains stagnantBut the same senior source insisted that Mr Osborne had the \"full confidence\" of the Prime Minister.\"He is an extremely successful Chancellor. He is battling very difficult economic circumstances,\" the source said. \"George Osborne will be Chancellor at the next general election.\"The developments came amid fevered , with suggestions rebels have set a deadline of summer 2014 for the party's electoral fortunes to turn around.speculation over plots against the Prime MinisterTory MP David Burrowes told : \"There's serious unrest in the grassroots. You cannot avoid the fact that the troops are unhappy. People are drifting away.\"The TimesBackbenchers insist the issue has sparked \"serious unrest\" among the party's rank and file and are claiming some constituencies have lost as many as 100 members each. Conservative headquarters, however, does not hold up-to-date membership records, the newspaper said.","The first signs that arts and music are being squeezed out of the school curriculum by Education Secretary Michael Gove\u2019s English Baccalaureate have emerged in a new survey by teachers\u2019 leaders.Figures show the amount of time devoted to art has been slashed by 16 per cent on average, as have design and technology subjects. Other subjects to emerge as victims of the new proposals are ICT with a 15 per cent cut, music 14 per cent and religious education 13 per cent.The survey of more than 2,500 teachers was carried out by the National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers. Its general secretary, Chris Keates, said the survey was \u201cfurther damning evidence that educational entitlements for our children and young people are being stripped away\u201d.The EBacc is used now only as a ranking measure for exam league tables. By 2015, Mr Gove plans to scrap GCSEs in maths, English and science, replacing them with an EBacc certificate, followed by languages, history and geography.","On a recent Thursday night, seven teenage boys in the central Greek city of Larissa decided to have what they described as \u201cfun\u201d. Armed with rocks and wooden batons, the group of 15-year-olds attacked the shop of a Pakistani resident. His son was treated for head injuries.Attacks by children are rare, but there are fears that they are on the rise as a harsh anti-immigrant rhetoric with undercurrents of violence takes root in the malleable minds of patriotic youths as they watch their country's sovereignty being eroded by foreign creditors.The potential to tap into this dissatisfaction and win over Greece's future voters has not been lost on the controversial Golden Dawn party: an investigation by found the neo-fascist party gaining ground among the country's youth, aggressively spreading their anti-immigrant, far-right message through social media, the internet, and youth clubs.The IndependentThe vigilante, truculent and anti-establishment features of Golden Dawn offer a seductive alternative to the radical left or anarchist movements that have traditionally appealed to Greece's teenagers. Over 50 teachers, parents and teenage students from schools across Athens interviewed by The Independent agree that the party is slowly becoming fashionable, when three years ago it was barely known.\"It's the feature of vitality: a need to show they're strong, young and fresh and are creating something new: be it a new party, a new country,\" explains Vassiliki Georgiadou, professor at Panteion University and an expert of far-Right wing radicalism who has studied Golden Dawn for years. \"They discard the label of Nazism and instead play up the nationalist card. They use ancient Greek history as a camouflage to hide their true identity: that they're fans of Hitler, anti-Semitism.\"Sixteen-year old Stavros doesn't see his parents often as they work hard to put food on the table. His mother is a fervent supporter of the left wing Syriza party, but Stavros was drawn to the nationalist rhetoric of Golden Dawn. He admits that he has in the past thrown rocks and fruit at the homes of Pakistani residents.\"I did this to get them to respect our country because I love Greece so much,\" he boasts. \"Golden Dawn kids are not killers but people who are worried that we won't be able to find jobs because of all those illegal immigrants.\"Evdoxia, also 16, wants to be a lawyer. She wears pink glasses and her manicured little finger sports a golden ring with a sparkly heart. Her nails and clothes are black \u2013 the favourite colour of many adolescents, but also of her favourite political party. \"Golden Dawn is not a descendent of Nazism,\" Evdoxia insists, playing with the cherry shaped pendant dangling from her neck. \"Whoever thinks it is, doesn't know what the party's really about.\"She is typical of the new Golden Dawn supporter. The punishing austerity programme that has gripped Greece as it struggles to cling to its eurozone membership has radically eroded her middle class quality of life. The weekly supermarket shopping became monthly. Birthday and Christmas gifts vanished. Evdoxia is extremely worried about her future.\"Golden Dawn is trying to offer solutions amid difficult times and contrary to other parties, they actually do what they say they will,\" she eloquently explains. The Zoro-style saviour tactics of this party is what also appealed to Evdoxia, who says her cousin was attacked and robbed by an African immigrant.She discovered Golden Dawn on the internet \u2013 the far-right movement actively uses social media to expand their presence. A few months ago, Facebook removed the profile pages of Golden Dawn MPs and other related pages for breaching the site's terms on racism and promoting violence, but there are plenty of other websites hosting their views.The party is reaping the fruit of its tireless campaigning. Grassroots mobilisation is its main recruitment technique, and the party is actively involved in neighbourhood initiatives, especially in areas that saw a rise of crime and strong influx of migrants. One teen told of how party members sometimes hand out mobile phone numbers to youths, claiming they are to help protect them from crime when they return late from school.Gyms, athletic and martial arts clubs are easy ground to recruit youngsters and there is even a patriotic supporters club, Galazia Stratia (Blue Army), which draws its membership from the youth. Music is also influential in attracting young followers. Two of Golden Dawn's MPs are musicians. One of them, Artemis Matthaiopoulos, was the bass player of white power rock band Pogrom which sang the praises of Hitler's Auschwitz death camp. Another nationalist song of theirs is entitled \"Speak Greek Or Die.\"The problem for teachers and other officials is how to tackle the rise of the far-right. A mainstream political party trying to recruit new members is not illegal, and Golden Dawn is no longer a fringe movement. After emerging from obscurity to win 7 per cent of the vote at last year's elections, the party has seen its popularity nearly double. If elections were to take place soon, polls predict the party would likely come into third place.While Ioannis Vouldis, the Golden Dawn MP who heads the party's youth branch, agreed to receive The Independent at their offices, he refused to answer any questions about its activities, saying only that: \"At present there is a decision not to talk to the press.\"Golden Dawn denies ties to any racist violence, although immigrant organisations strongly contest this, while analysts say their rhetoric has prompted many of followers to act on slogans like \"clean up Greece of the stench\" \u2013 in reference to illegal immigrants. A few months ago, Golden Dawn MPs smashed the stalls of immigrant vendors who failed to provide the necessary permits for selling goods at street markets. The daughter of the party's leader was also detained over a racist attack last June.These culture clashes appear to be spreading into the playground. Graffiti of Greek flags, nationalist slogans, and signs that bear a resemblance to swastikas have started appearing around schools. Nikiforos, 12, blames Golden Dawn for the recent rise of violence between his Greek and foreign schoolmates. \"We've turned into Age of Empires,\" he shyly jokes, making reference to the popular computer war game where kingdoms clash in an effort to expand their civilisation.Ernesto, 17, is an Albanian who grew up with his Greek friend Kostas in central Athens. They shared their food, discussed girls and played football. But a few years ago, Kostas started spending his time with a group of black-clad youths with shaved heads who claimed to support Golden Dawn.\"Kostas felt he was different by hanging out with them: they were the mean and cool guys that everyone was afraid of,\" he recalls. \"They hated immigrants and even taught their dogs to growl at Africans \u2013 it was crazy\".The widespread anger that Greeks have experienced since the beginning of the economic crisis has been channelled to children and is shaping their psyche, experts say. Child psychologist Amalia Louizou explains that in such an environment, children are the easiest recipients of extremist messages.About 50 teachers set up the Anti-Fascist Front of Education to deal with the rise of right-wing extremism, but with deep cuts to the education budget, there are few resources to help them win the fierce battle for the minds of youths. Concepts like Nazism, fascism and prejudice need to be endowed with significance to youths who can't relate to them, experts say.\"Kids need to start loving people who are different in colour and religion and this can only really happen from schools,\" argues Mr Georgiadou from Panteion University. \"They're being taught about ancient Greece instead of what is a democracy and the benefits of living in it instead of a dictatorship.\"Meanwhile, at a Golden Dawn youth festival at the foot of Mt Ymittos in Athens, a few months ago, the party's leader thundered to thousands of supporters: \"They've called us thugs, fascists, racists but we answered: we are the future, you are the past.\"\"We are the Greece that is coming.\"Golden Dawn: Exploiting austerityUntil recently, Golden Dawn was a fringe party \u2013 thought of by most Greeks as too extreme. But as the economy has worsened, the party's fortunes have improved.Founded in 1993, the party's breakthrough came in the 2012 elections \u2013 marked by deep economic recession and budget cuts. Golden Dawn took around seven per cent, vowing to expel both legal and illegal immigrants. In the previous election it polled just 0.2 per cent.Golden Dawn denies that it is a neo-Nazi party, preferring to call itself nationalist. But its members are accused of acts of violence against immigrants and ethnic minorities. The party's flag is an ancient Greek symbol similar to the swastika and its leader, Nikolaos Mihaloliakos, gave a Nazi salute at an Athens city council meeting in 2011.The party made headlines last year when Ilias Kasidiaris, a high-profile member, slapped a female MP on live television.Richard Hall","On a recent Thursday night, seven teenage boys in the central Greek city of Larissa decided to have what they described as \u201cfun\u201d. Armed with rocks and wooden batons, the group of 15-year-olds attacked the shop of a Pakistani resident. His son was treated for head injuries.Attacks by children are rare, but there are fears that they are on the rise as a harsh anti-immigrant rhetoric with undercurrents of violence takes root in the malleable minds of patriotic youths as they watch their country's sovereignty being eroded by foreign creditors.The potential to tap into this dissatisfaction and win over Greece's future voters has not been lost on the controversial Golden Dawn party: an investigation by found the neo-fascist party gaining ground among the country's youth, aggressively spreading their anti-immigrant, far-right message through social media, the internet, and youth clubs.The IndependentThe vigilante, truculent and anti-establishment features of Golden Dawn offer a seductive alternative to the radical left or anarchist movements that have traditionally appealed to Greece's teenagers. Over 50 teachers, parents and teenage students from schools across Athens interviewed by The Independent agree that the party is slowly becoming fashionable, when three years ago it was barely known.\"It's the feature of vitality: a need to show they're strong, young and fresh and are creating something new: be it a new party, a new country,\" explains Vassiliki Georgiadou, professor at Panteion University and an expert of far-Right wing radicalism who has studied Golden Dawn for years. \"They discard the label of Nazism and instead play up the nationalist card. They use ancient Greek history as a camouflage to hide their true identity: that they're fans of Hitler, anti-Semitism.\"Sixteen-year old Stavros doesn't see his parents often as they work hard to put food on the table. His mother is a fervent supporter of the left wing Syriza party, but Stavros was drawn to the nationalist rhetoric of Golden Dawn. He admits that he has in the past thrown rocks and fruit at the homes of Pakistani residents.\"I did this to get them to respect our country because I love Greece so much,\" he boasts. \"Golden Dawn kids are not killers but people who are worried that we won't be able to find jobs because of all those illegal immigrants.\"Evdoxia, also 16, wants to be a lawyer. She wears pink glasses and her manicured little finger sports a golden ring with a sparkly heart. Her nails and clothes are black \u2013 the favourite colour of many adolescents, but also of her favourite political party. \"Golden Dawn is not a descendent of Nazism,\" Evdoxia insists, playing with the cherry shaped pendant dangling from her neck. \"Whoever thinks it is, doesn't know what the party's really about.\"She is typical of the new Golden Dawn supporter. The punishing austerity programme that has gripped Greece as it struggles to cling to its eurozone membership has radically eroded her middle class quality of life. The weekly supermarket shopping became monthly. Birthday and Christmas gifts vanished. Evdoxia is extremely worried about her future.\"Golden Dawn is trying to offer solutions amid difficult times and contrary to other parties, they actually do what they say they will,\" she eloquently explains. The Zoro-style saviour tactics of this party is what also appealed to Evdoxia, who says her cousin was attacked and robbed by an African immigrant.She discovered Golden Dawn on the internet \u2013 the far-right movement actively uses social media to expand their presence. A few months ago, Facebook removed the profile pages of Golden Dawn MPs and other related pages for breaching the site's terms on racism and promoting violence, but there are plenty of other websites hosting their views.The party is reaping the fruit of its tireless campaigning. Grassroots mobilisation is its main recruitment technique, and the party is actively involved in neighbourhood initiatives, especially in areas that saw a rise of crime and strong influx of migrants. One teen told of how party members sometimes hand out mobile phone numbers to youths, claiming they are to help protect them from crime when they return late from school.Gyms, athletic and martial arts clubs are easy ground to recruit youngsters and there is even a patriotic supporters club, Galazia Stratia (Blue Army), which draws its membership from the youth. Music is also influential in attracting young followers. Two of Golden Dawn's MPs are musicians. One of them, Artemis Matthaiopoulos, was the bass player of white power rock band Pogrom which sang the praises of Hitler's Auschwitz death camp. Another nationalist song of theirs is entitled \"Speak Greek Or Die.\"The problem for teachers and other officials is how to tackle the rise of the far-right. A mainstream political party trying to recruit new members is not illegal, and Golden Dawn is no longer a fringe movement. After emerging from obscurity to win 7 per cent of the vote at last year's elections, the party has seen its popularity nearly double. If elections were to take place soon, polls predict the party would likely come into third place.While Ioannis Vouldis, the Golden Dawn MP who heads the party's youth branch, agreed to receive The Independent at their offices, he refused to answer any questions about its activities, saying only that: \"At present there is a decision not to talk to the press.\"Golden Dawn denies ties to any racist violence, although immigrant organisations strongly contest this, while analysts say their rhetoric has prompted many of followers to act on slogans like \"clean up Greece of the stench\" \u2013 in reference to illegal immigrants. A few months ago, Golden Dawn MPs smashed the stalls of immigrant vendors who failed to provide the necessary permits for selling goods at street markets. The daughter of the party's leader was also detained over a racist attack last June.These culture clashes appear to be spreading into the playground. Graffiti of Greek flags, nationalist slogans, and signs that bear a resemblance to swastikas have started appearing around schools. Nikiforos, 12, blames Golden Dawn for the recent rise of violence between his Greek and foreign schoolmates. \"We've turned into Age of Empires,\" he shyly jokes, making reference to the popular computer war game where kingdoms clash in an effort to expand their civilisation.Ernesto, 17, is an Albanian who grew up with his Greek friend Kostas in central Athens. They shared their food, discussed girls and played football. But a few years ago, Kostas started spending his time with a group of black-clad youths with shaved heads who claimed to support Golden Dawn.\"Kostas felt he was different by hanging out with them: they were the mean and cool guys that everyone was afraid of,\" he recalls. \"They hated immigrants and even taught their dogs to growl at Africans \u2013 it was crazy\".The widespread anger that Greeks have experienced since the beginning of the economic crisis has been channelled to children and is shaping their psyche, experts say. Child psychologist Amalia Louizou explains that in such an environment, children are the easiest recipients of extremist messages.About 50 teachers set up the Anti-Fascist Front of Education to deal with the rise of right-wing extremism, but with deep cuts to the education budget, there are few resources to help them win the fierce battle for the minds of youths. Concepts like Nazism, fascism and prejudice need to be endowed with significance to youths who can't relate to them, experts say.\"Kids need to start loving people who are different in colour and religion and this can only really happen from schools,\" argues Mr Georgiadou from Panteion University. \"They're being taught about ancient Greece instead of what is a democracy and the benefits of living in it instead of a dictatorship.\"Meanwhile, at a Golden Dawn youth festival at the foot of Mt Ymittos in Athens, a few months ago, the party's leader thundered to thousands of supporters: \"They've called us thugs, fascists, racists but we answered: we are the future, you are the past.\"\"We are the Greece that is coming.\"Golden Dawn: Exploiting austerityUntil recently, Golden Dawn was a fringe party \u2013 thought of by most Greeks as too extreme. But as the economy has worsened, the party's fortunes have improved.Founded in 1993, the party's breakthrough came in the 2012 elections \u2013 marked by deep economic recession and budget cuts. Golden Dawn took around seven per cent, vowing to expel both legal and illegal immigrants. In the previous election it polled just 0.2 per cent.Golden Dawn denies that it is a neo-Nazi party, preferring to call itself nationalist. But its members are accused of acts of violence against immigrants and ethnic minorities. The party's flag is an ancient Greek symbol similar to the swastika and its leader, Nikolaos Mihaloliakos, gave a Nazi salute at an Athens city council meeting in 2011.The party made headlines last year when Ilias Kasidiaris, a high-profile member, slapped a female MP on live television.Richard Hall","Dozens of wavering Conservative MPs, including some cabinet ministers, were facing intense pressure tonight to put aside their reservations and back the Government\u2019s Bill to legalise gay marriage tomorrow.While Downing Street insisted it was not \u201cpress-ganging\u201d MPs to support David Cameron in the free vote, a succession of cabinet allies took to the airwaves to endorse the move.The Bill will certainly pass with Labour and Liberal Democrat support. But Downing Street is anxious to avoid a situation in a majority of Mr Cameron\u2019s own MPs vote against him on such a contentious issue.Some junior ministers were said to have warned backbench colleagues that their careers could be damaged if they voted against the Government while George Osborne is understood to have been contacting MPs whose position is still uncertain.The Foreign Secretary William Hague said last night that those opposed to gay marriage would be on the wrong side of history.\u201cI think as times have changed, civil partnerships came in... Within a remarkably short period of time, those things become accepted,\u201d he said.\u00a0\u201cI think the same will happen with this.\u201dIn a sign of the deep tension within the Conservative Party on the issue the Conservative blogger Iain Dale even suggested that some privately gay MPs could be \u201couted\u201d if they voted against gay marriage.\u201cI\u2019ve been looking at the list of MPs who intend to vote against allowing gay people to marry on Tuesday,\u201d he wrote. \u201cI note with interest the names of several MPs who most people in the Westminster village know to be closet gays. And I note also the names of two supposedly straight MPs who I know to be conducting gay affairs at the moment.\u201cI don\u2019t believe in \u2018outing\u2019 anyone, but because of the rank hypocrisy there will be others who will take a different view.\u201dCampaigners calculate that, of the 303 Conservative MPs, 114 are likely to vote against the proposal and 108 in favour. The spotlight has now turned on the 81 MPs thought to be either neutral or undecided, with their votes set to determine whether Mr Cameron can claim the backing of a majority of his parliamentary party.But the undecided face an equally fierce lobbying campaign from opponents of gay marriage who are warning that they could face losing the seats by alienating traditional Tory supporters.Today Mr Cameron was sent a letter, signed by 25 chairmen or former chairmen of Conservative Party associations, warning that the policy will cause \u201csignificant damage\u201d.Geoffrey Vero, chairman of the Conservative association in Surrey Heath who organised the letter, said more than 25 party members had quit locally over gay marriage.\u201cI think a number of Conservative supporters and voters will sit on their hands on the issue and that may seriously affect David\u2019s opportunity to get re-elected at 2015 and we think that is a dangerous risk to take with your core supporters,\u201d he said.But his own MP, the Education Secretary Michael Gove, wrote an article for The Mail on Sunday calling for his colleagues to back the move \u201cin decisive terms\u201d.\u201cSome people might think it curious that a Tory politician should be making these arguments,\u201d he said. \u201cBut I want to change the law on marriage because of my Conservative convictions.\u201dHe was backed by the Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt who said: \u201cEvery year thousands of people choose to marry in a church rather than a registry office because they believe marriage is sacred. Religious freedom is not just for heterosexuals \u2013 we should not deny anyone the right to make a life-long commitment to another person in front of God if that is what they believe and that is what their church allows.\u201dBut despite this at least two cabinet ministers \u2013 the Environment Secretary Owen Paterson and Welsh Secretary David Jones \u2013 are expected to vote against the plans while the Defence Secretary Philip Hammond will vote against or abstain and the Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith could also abstain.The government whips Stephen Crabb, David Evennett, Robert Goodwill, Mark Lancaster, Nicky Morgan and John Randall are also likely to oppose or abstain as well as junior ministers Mike Penning, John Hayes and Jeremy Wright. One of the Bill\u2019s opponents, the former children\u2019s minister Tim Loughton warned the Bill was \u201cfull of pitfalls\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s quite a lot of things that were in our manifesto which made it to the Coalition Agreement which we have yet to deliver,\u201d he said. \u201cGay marriage is something on which we had no Green Paper, no White Paper, no manifesto commitment of any party. It wasn\u2019t in the Coalition Agreement, and all of a sudden it is taking huge priority. It is going to take up a lot of parliamentary time and is going set MP against MP, and we don\u2019t need it.\u201dFor:1 David Cameron2 William Hague3 George Osborne4 Theresa May5 Michael Gove6 Eric Pickles7 Jeremy Hunt8 Justine Greening9 Justice Secretary, Chris Grayling10 Transport Secretary, Patrick McLoughlin11 Culture Secretary, Maria Miller12 Minister without Portfolio, Ken Clarke13 Leader of the Commons, Andrew Lansley\u00a014 Northern Ireland Secretary, Theresa Villiers15 Chief Whip, Sir George Young16 Minister for the Cabinet\u00a0 Office, Francis Maude17 Minister for government policy, Oliver Letwin18 Conservative chairman, Grant ShappsUnclear1 Minister of Business, Innovation and Skills, David Willetts2 Work and Pensions Secretary, Iain Duncan Smith3 Attorney General,\u00a0 Dominic GrieveAgainstEnvironment Secretary: Owen PatersonWelsh Secretary: David JonesDefence Secretary: Philip HammondPaterson and Jones are almost certain to vote against the measure but supporters hope to persuade Hammond to abstain.\u00a0\u00a0","A formal investigation into the conduct of two of Michael Gove\u2019s special advisers was demanded today following anonymous smears of the Education Secretary's opponents on the social networking site Twitter.Stephen Twigg, Labour\u2019s education spokesman, wants Cabinet Secretary Jeremy Haywood to investigate whether senior special advisers Dominic Cummings and Henry de Zoete flouted their code of conduct in postings on the Twitter feed @toryeducation and in briefing other websites.Derogatory comments about critics of government policies and journalists have been posted on the feed and The Spectator website in recent months.After accusing the Department for Education of adopting an \u201cUpstairs, Downstairs\u201d mentality between ministers and civil servants, former Children\u2019s Minister Tim Loughton was singled out for attack on The Spectator website as\u00a0 \u201ca lazy incompetent narcissist\u201d by someone claiming to be a senior DfE source.Journalist Chris Cook, from the Financial Times, was accused of being a \u201cstalker\u201d and a Walter Mitty-type character on @toryeducation after a series of articles claiming Mr Gove and his advisers were using private email addresses to conduct government business in an attempt to circumvent Freedom of Information requests. The Observer political editor Toby Helm was accused of being a \u201clabour stooge\u201d after an article critical of the school sports legacy following last year\u2019s Olympics.In a letter to Sir Jeremy, Mr Twigg asks him to investigate the source of the smears, adding: \u201cI would also ask you to investigate if official department resources have been used, such as official computers, blackberries or phones, to conduct a smear campaign against those who question or criticise the Education Secretary. There are serious allegations the code (for special advisers) may have been breached. You will be aware that ministers have responsibility for the actions of their special advisers.\u201dIn The Observer today, it was claimed Mr Cummings and Mr de Zoete had been running a feed to the site and that they have previously been asked by Henry Macrory, the Conservative head of press, to tone down the comments.Asked by The Observer whether they were responsible for the tweets, Mr de Zoete said he was not @toryeducation and Mr Cummings responded with emails ridiculing the story.A spokeswoman for the Department for Education said: \u201cIf we were to receive any evidence that anyone connected with the Department for Education had broken the Special Advisers Code or the Civil Service Code, then we would take appropriate steps.\u00a0 So far no such evidence has been provided.\u201d\u2018Chillax, John!\u2019 -\u00a0 the non-denial denialIn an email seen by to the Observer editor, John Mulholland responding to questions about his links with the Twitter feed @toryeducation, Dominic Cummings, special adviser to Michael Gove, writes:\u00a0 \u201cI\u2019m not wasting time on the tantrums of Toby Helm and Chris Cook over anonymous Twitter accounts.The Independent\"Am I supposed to take seriously anonymous accusations about anonymous Twitter accounts ridiculing journalists with too much time on their hands? I suggest your advice to both of them is: take a Twitter detox because it\u2019s melting your brains, focus on what\u2019s important, stop behaving like eight-year-olds.\u201dIn a response, Mr Mulholland replies;\u00a0 \u201cI noted how your first\u00a0 email did not deny contributing to\u00a0 @educationnews.\u201d [He later makes it clear he should have written\u00a0 @toryeducation]In his final email, Mr Cummings - who picks him up over his reference to @educationnews \u2013 says: \u201cOnce you\u2019ve chillaxed, I would be happy to chat some time about education policy.\u201d","Dozens of wavering Conservative MPs, including some cabinet ministers, were facing intense pressure tonight to put aside their reservations and back the Government\u2019s Bill to legalise gay marriage tomorrow.While Downing Street insisted it was not \u201cpress-ganging\u201d MPs to support David Cameron in the free vote, a succession of cabinet allies took to the airwaves to endorse the move.The Bill will certainly pass with Labour and Liberal Democrat support. But Downing Street is anxious to avoid a situation in a majority of Mr Cameron\u2019s own MPs vote against him on such a contentious issue.Some junior ministers were said to have warned backbench colleagues that their careers could be damaged if they voted against the Government while George Osborne is understood to have been contacting MPs whose position is still uncertain.The Foreign Secretary William Hague said last night that those opposed to gay marriage would be on the wrong side of history.\u201cI think as times have changed, civil partnerships came in... Within a remarkably short period of time, those things become accepted,\u201d he said.\u00a0\u201cI think the same will happen with this.\u201dIn a sign of the deep tension within the Conservative Party on the issue the Conservative blogger Iain Dale even suggested that some privately gay MPs could be \u201couted\u201d if they voted against gay marriage.\u201cI\u2019ve been looking at the list of MPs who intend to vote against allowing gay people to marry on Tuesday,\u201d he wrote. \u201cI note with interest the names of several MPs who most people in the Westminster village know to be closet gays. And I note also the names of two supposedly straight MPs who I know to be conducting gay affairs at the moment.\u201cI don\u2019t believe in \u2018outing\u2019 anyone, but because of the rank hypocrisy there will be others who will take a different view.\u201dCampaigners calculate that, of the 303 Conservative MPs, 114 are likely to vote against the proposal and 108 in favour. The spotlight has now turned on the 81 MPs thought to be either neutral or undecided, with their votes set to determine whether Mr Cameron can claim the backing of a majority of his parliamentary party.But the undecided face an equally fierce lobbying campaign from opponents of gay marriage who are warning that they could face losing the seats by alienating traditional Tory supporters.Today Mr Cameron was sent a letter, signed by 25 chairmen or former chairmen of Conservative Party associations, warning that the policy will cause \u201csignificant damage\u201d.Geoffrey Vero, chairman of the Conservative association in Surrey Heath who organised the letter, said more than 25 party members had quit locally over gay marriage.\u201cI think a number of Conservative supporters and voters will sit on their hands on the issue and that may seriously affect David\u2019s opportunity to get re-elected at 2015 and we think that is a dangerous risk to take with your core supporters,\u201d he said.But his own MP, the Education Secretary Michael Gove, wrote an article for The Mail on Sunday calling for his colleagues to back the move \u201cin decisive terms\u201d.\u201cSome people might think it curious that a Tory politician should be making these arguments,\u201d he said. \u201cBut I want to change the law on marriage because of my Conservative convictions.\u201dHe was backed by the Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt who said: \u201cEvery year thousands of people choose to marry in a church rather than a registry office because they believe marriage is sacred. Religious freedom is not just for heterosexuals \u2013 we should not deny anyone the right to make a life-long commitment to another person in front of God if that is what they believe and that is what their church allows.\u201dBut despite this at least two cabinet ministers \u2013 the Environment Secretary Owen Paterson and Welsh Secretary David Jones \u2013 are expected to vote against the plans while the Defence Secretary Philip Hammond will vote against or abstain and the Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith could also abstain.The government whips Stephen Crabb, David Evennett, Robert Goodwill, Mark Lancaster, Nicky Morgan and John Randall are also likely to oppose or abstain as well as junior ministers Mike Penning, John Hayes and Jeremy Wright. One of the Bill\u2019s opponents, the former children\u2019s minister Tim Loughton warned the Bill was \u201cfull of pitfalls\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s quite a lot of things that were in our manifesto which made it to the Coalition Agreement which we have yet to deliver,\u201d he said. \u201cGay marriage is something on which we had no Green Paper, no White Paper, no manifesto commitment of any party. It wasn\u2019t in the Coalition Agreement, and all of a sudden it is taking huge priority. It is going to take up a lot of parliamentary time and is going set MP against MP, and we don\u2019t need it.\u201dFor:1 David Cameron2 William Hague3 George Osborne4 Theresa May5 Michael Gove6 Eric Pickles7 Jeremy Hunt8 Justine Greening9 Justice Secretary, Chris Grayling10 Transport Secretary, Patrick McLoughlin11 Culture Secretary, Maria Miller12 Minister without Portfolio, Ken Clarke13 Leader of the Commons, Andrew Lansley\u00a014 Northern Ireland Secretary, Theresa Villiers15 Chief Whip, Sir George Young16 Minister for the Cabinet\u00a0 Office, Francis Maude17 Minister for government policy, Oliver Letwin18 Conservative chairman, Grant ShappsUnclear1 Minister of Business, Innovation and Skills, David Willetts2 Work and Pensions Secretary, Iain Duncan Smith3 Attorney General,\u00a0 Dominic GrieveAgainstEnvironment Secretary: Owen PatersonWelsh Secretary: David JonesDefence Secretary: Philip HammondPaterson and Jones are almost certain to vote against the measure but supporters hope to persuade Hammond to abstain.\u00a0\u00a0","A gay marriage bill which profoundly divides France crept through parliament today in the face of thousands of wrecking amendments.The national assembly, which sat through the weekend for the first time in 15 years, is to meet night and day to complete the \u201cmarriage for all\u201d law before a deadline on 10 February.On Saturday, the fifth day of debate, deputies approved the first and most important article, which abolishes the line in the French civil code limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples.In recognition of the deep disquiet which the proposed law has provoked amongst some French people, the centre-left government has promised to refrain from using\u00a0 guillotine powers to truncate the debate in the lower house of parliament.Over 5,000 amendments have been tabled, many of them absurdist proposals by right-wing opposition. They include mocking suggestions to allow polygamous or incestuous weddings or to recognise \u201cmass marriages\u201d involving three or more people.In parliamentary terms, unlike in Britain, this is largely a left-versus-right battle. Gay marriage was promised by President Fran\u00e7oisHollande during his successful election campaign last Spring.Only one centre-right deputy voted for gay marriage on Saturday. Three others abstained. Only one left-wing deputy voted against.In France as a whole, however, the battle-lines are more complicated. Many rural and provincial left-wing politicians are unhappy about the bill. More than 60 per cent of French people favour gay marriage but a majority opposes adoption by gay couples \u2013something which the bill would also legalise.Opposition to \u201cle marriage homo\u201d has mobilised conservative and Catholic public opinion on a scale unseen since the 1980s. Over 300,000 people \u2013 800,000, according to the organisers \u2013 demonstrated in Paris three weeks ago. Smaller protests were held in a dozen French cities today.Centre-right politicians \u2013 having themselves flirted with idea of legalising gay marriage in the past \u2013 have seized on the issue as a way of crystallising opposition to President Hollande."]},{"x":0.276272584729292,"y":0.0724458120863317,"no_docs":31,"words":[{"prob":1.53991669457144e-05,"word":"man"},{"prob":0.00058731151370256,"word":"mr"},{"prob":1.53991669457144e-05,"word":"year"},{"prob":0.000923573316119656,"word":"gun"},{"prob":0.00710765927672815,"word":"ms"},{"prob":0.000381033131005119,"word":"shot"},{"prob":1.53991669457144e-05,"word":"found"}],"docs":["Air accident investigators were last night trying to piece together the last moments of the helicopter flight which ended with death raining down on early morning commuters.Click on the image above or HERE to launch galleryTwo people, including the highly experienced pilot of the luxury eight-seat AgustaWestland helicopter, were killed after the aircraft struck a crane in central London while flying in low cloud and plummeted to the ground \"like a rocket\".The helicopter clipped the crane above the St George Wharf Tower in Vauxhall while trying to divert due to bad weather and smashed into a busy road, setting cars and buildings ablaze as pedestrians fled for their lives.Witnesses described hearing a thunderclap-like bang shortly before 8am and looking up to see the helicopter, denuded of its rotors and tail, emerging from the clouds shrouding the skyscraper next to the River Thames \u2013 near the headquarters of MI6 \u2013 as it plunged earthwards. It crashed close to a railway bridge at one of London's busiest transport interchanges.Commander Neil Basu, the police officer in charge of a massive emergency operation, said it was a miracle that the aftermath of the rush-hour crash was not \"many, many times worse\". Amid pools of burning aviation fuel, firefighters and passers-by pulled one man from a car that was set alight.Twelve people were injured, the majority treated at the scene for cuts and bruises. Five required hospital treatment, including a man with a broken leg.The pilot was named as Pete Barnes, 50, a veteran helicopter specialist who had flown air ambulances and had more than 12,000 hours of flying time, which included filming for a string of Hollywood blockbusters and transporting celebrities and public figures. He was described by colleagues last night as \"one of the best\".The second person killed was believed to have been in one of the burning buildings. Last night he was named as 39-year-old Matthew Wood, from Sutton, Surrey. His next of kin have been informed, the Metropolitan Police said.The sight of a \u00a34m aircraft falling out of the skies, despite some of the world's tightest regulations for flying over a large city, provoked calls, backed by David Cameron, for a review of rules that allow more than 1,300 helicopter flights over central London each month. The accident is believed to be the first fatal helicopter crash in the city centre since records began in 1976. Kate Hoey, the Labour MP for the Vauxhall area, said it \"would have been facing a major, major catastrophe\" if the helicopter had landed on the apartments nearby.The Air Accident Investigation Branch said it would be \"several months\" before it could produce a definitive report on the cause of the tragedy. But it will focus on how a modern aircraft, fully equipped for instrument flying, collided with a 770ft-tall structure despite a 500ft exclusion zone around all buildings in the capital.One witness told that the helicopter, a 15-year-old twin-engined AgustaWestland 109 Power, appeared to be out of control moments before the collision as it headed westwards along the Thames, en route from Redhill in Surrey to Elstree, Hertford-shire. There were unconfirmed reports that Mr Barnes was on his way to pick up a prominent businessman.The IndependentSharon Moore, 39, said: \"The helicopter was out of control. The noise made us look up and I thought, 'Oh my God'. It was swerving and then we heard a loud bang as the helicopter hit the building. Then it just went boom, there was flame and smoke everywhere.\"Terrified commuters said the scene resembled a Hollywood disaster movie. The debris included steel stanchions from the crane left hanging crumpled above the accident scene.Ben Slinger, 28, a warehouse supervisor, said: \"There was an explosion directly overhead, like a thunderclap. I looked up. There was thick cloud and out of the cloud there suddenly came this rotorless helicopter. The body of the aircraft seemed perfectly intact \u2013 it just had the rotors missing. It plunged in a straight line to the ground like a rocket. It went straight into the road and went up in an enormous fireball. I could feel the heat from the fire on my face. I couldn't believe my eyes.\"Key to the inqury will be the role played by the weather and whether dense low cloud obscured warning lights on the crane and tower.Eyewitness: Lucky escapesSharon MooreThe voluntary worker, who has five children and who lives nearby, saw the helicopter slice through the crane \"as if it was a piece of paper\". \"The helicopter did not seem to know which way to turn and then it just dropped. It sliced, screeching into the metal,\" said Ms Moore, 36. Moments before the aircraft came down, it appeared to try to avoid the tower block. \"I honestly think it was as if the pilot was blinded,\" she said. \"I think the helicopter tried to swerve but didn't know which way to turn.\"Ray WattsThe lorry driver was collecting building materials from the tower when he saw debris and then the crane's boom crashing down. \"I was scared and legged it,\" he told The Guardian. \"I didn't know which way to run because there were bits everywhere. I ran towards the station and there were still bits raining down.\" He said he saw \"a massive fireball\" as the helicopter exploded and a building caught light, adding that it was lucky the wreckage fell across Nine Elms Lane just after the traffic lights turned red. \"If the lights were green, the traffic would have gone through and it would have been a different story.\"Michael KrumstetsThe 45-year-old was walking to work with his flatmate when they saw the helicopter hit the crane. \"There was a loud crack and it started spinning out of control towards us,\" he told Sky News. \"We ran across the road and my flatmate fell over and I had to grab him. The helicopter crashed into the road just feet away from us. When you see a helicopter hurtling out of the sky towards you, it's incredible. It's the last thing you expect... we were so lucky. If we had been walking there just a few moments later we would have been dead.\"Bruce GrainOne of the first firefighters on the scene, he said it was \"absolute chaos\" but the helicopter blaze was extinguished in 20 minutes. \"I could see smoke from a mile away,\" he said. \"The helicopter was still alight, part of the rotor blade was on the roof of nearby buildings.\"View Larger Map","The pilot of the helicopter which crashed in central London on Wednesday morning may have been trying to change channel on his communications radio when the aircraft collided with a crane at rush hour.Aviation experts said the location of the collision, which took place in low cloud close to Vauxhall Bridge, was the point at which pilots approaching to land at the London Battersea Heliport were asked to switch frequencies to contact air traffic controllers.Pete Barnes, a veteran pilot with more than 20 years\u2019 flying experience, had requested at short notice to divert from his intended route between Surrey and Hertfordshire so he could land at the heliport some two and a half miles from the crash site, close to a railway bridge.Investigators from the Air Accident Investigation Branch are trying to establish what caused the eight-seater AgustaWestland 109 to clip the crane attached to the side of the St George Wharf tower, despite rules requiring aircraft to stay at least away 500ft from all structures.Mr Barnes was flying in foggy conditions after taking off at 7.35am from the aerodrome at Redhill in Surrey, and requested via air traffic controllers at Heathrow to change route to reach the heliport, which operates its own air traffic control zone over a specified radio frequency.A spokesman for the London Battersea Heliport, which yesterday re-opened after the crash, said it had received a request from Heathrow\u2019s controllers to accept the helicopter but never made contact with the aircraft.David Learmount, operations editor of aviation website Flightglobal, said a small change in weather conditions, which are believed to have worsened around the time of the crash, could have been enough to \u201ctrap\u201d the pilot as he tried to navigate a route to make a safe landing.He said: \u201cWeather will turn out to be the key issue. When you fly in marginal conditions it only needs a little dip in what you were expecting and you\u2019re pretty much trapped. He probably did not see the crane until it was too late. Sometimes even bright lights are difficult to see in foggy conditions.\u201dThe partner of Mr Barnes, 50, said the pilot would have instinctively tried to do everything possible to minimise casualties as his helicopter plunged to the ground. The second fatality in the accident, 39-year-old Matthew Wood, was struck by debris as he walked to work. Scotland Yard said it was a \u201cmiracle\u201d that the outcome of the crash was not far worse.Rebecca Dixon, who survives Mr Barnes along with their two children, Freddie, eight, and 12-year-old Alexandra, told the Evening Standard: \u201cObviously he would have been frantic and the lives of others would have been at the forefront of his mind. It sums up the man. I find it very comforting and so do the children.\u201dThe family of Mr Wood, a manager for pest control firm Rentokil, said he had been killed because he was determined to turn up early for work. His brother Darren, 35, said Matthew had not been due to start work until later but always arrived early at the office.He said he texted Matthew shortly before 8am reassuring him about the wellbeing of his 11-month-old nephew, who was in hospital, and Matthew replied saying: \u201cGood news.\u201dMr Wood said: \u201cHe was a very family-oriented guy and he doted on his nephew. You will never find a bad word said about him.\u201d","A woman had to be rescued by firefighters after she fell and got wedged four feet off the ground between two buildings in Portland, Oregon.Rescuers said they didn't know how the woman got into the squeeze.The fire services used braces to support her and turned on a portable heater to keep her warm in the winter chill while they dropped an air bag into the opening to slightly spread the walls.\"She was in good spirits,\" Lt. Rich Chatman, of Portland fire department, said. \"We just tried to reassure her ... we weren't going home without her.\"After they cut a window-sized hole in the concrete wall, Lt. Chatman climbed in to apply a soapy lubricant. The woman then wiggled toward the hole as the rescue team pulled her to safety.The woman spent about four hours in a space around nine inches wide. Local and national cable news broadcast footage of the rescue effort and showed the woman emerging.She was taken to the Oregon Health &amp; Science University hospital and appeared to be in good health, fire Lt. Damon Simmons said.The department's Urban Search and Rescue, who helped her escape, train for situations such as building collapses and none of the tactics used Wednesday were improvised, Lt. Simmons said.\"They're ready for when the big earthquake hits,\" he said.","A two-year-old tabby cat was found in \"surprisingly good condition\" after travelling 1,700 miles trapped in a train's undercarriage.Polly, whose owner is a retired train driver, did though need her front left leg amputating after it became infected.Her trip took in London, Swansea, Wiltshire and Cornwall, before train manager Emily Mahoney-Smith, 33, heard her desperate moans.Ms Mahony-Smith told The Times: \"It's amazing she survived for so long. I think she climbed into the train as she was chasing rats in the shunting yard.\"She was in surprisingly good condition, although she was incredibly smelly from her infected leg.\"Polly is now recovering and will soon return to the Plymouth home of her owners, 84-year-old Arthur Westington and his wife Louisa, 82, who say they \u201ccan\u2019t wait\u201d to have her home.It is thought she crawled into the train at a rail yard in Plymouth while a maintenance panel was removed last Thursday.Polly then spent the next two days trapped without food or water.A spokesman for First Great Western, the train operator, said: \"We're pretty sure the cat had been stuck on board for some time. It was ensconced in the underbelly and couldn't have got there unless the train was in a depot.\"That part of the train isn't accessible from a normal station stop so the latest it could realistically have stowed away would have been at Plymouth, where it started service. We've calculated it did at least 1,667 miles.\"Ms Mahoney-Smith heard Polly's cries at Plymouth but could not find where they were coming from until the train reached St Germans, where she and the driver got out to investigate.They found Polly, put her in a box and gave her the tuna from a buffet sandwich.On-call vet Matthew Berriman, having been called by the RSPCA, discovered Polly was microchipped.Despite her injuries she was operated on and Mrs Westington was contacted.","As the world looked on in horror at the savage shootings in the hilly Newtown community of Sandy Hook on 14 December, Robyn Griggs-Johnson was in the living room of her family home in Grand Rapids, Michigan.It was late in the day, hours after Adam Lanza opened fire on a group of defenceless children and their teachers at Sandy Hook Elementary. Ms Griggs-Johnson heard a knock at the door. When she opened the window to see who it was, she was shot, according to the local Michigan Live news website. The case remains unresolved.A day later, as more details emerged from Newtown, a three-year-old boy in Guthrie, Oklahoma, was visiting his aunt and uncle when he reportedly found a loaded handgun in the their bedroom. He took hold of the weapon and accidentally shot himself in the head.The deaths are among the hundreds of instances of gun-related fatalities cited by President Barack Obama this week as he unveiled the most\u00a0 far-reaching measures to stem gun violence in decades. \u201cIn the month since 20 precious children and six brave adults were violently taken from us at Sandy Hook Elementary, more than 900 of our fellow Americans have reportedly died at the end of a\u00a0 gun \u2013 900 in the past month. And every day we wait, the number will keep growing,\u201d he said.Updated figures on gun deaths are notoriously hard to come by. Estimates abound but since the summer, an anonymous Twitter account with the handle @GunDeaths has been harnessing the reach of social\u00a0 media to produce a real time tally. The online magazine Slate has now teamed up with @GunDeaths to produce an updated counter of deaths since Newtown, which stood at 926 at the time of writing.The Twitter initiative itself was motivated by another mass shooting, that in Aurora, Colorado, when James Holmes is alleged to have interrupted a midnight screening of the new Batman film with a hail of gunfire,\u00a0 killing 12 movie-goers.The @GunDeaths account, meanwhile, was updated at least twice while this story was being written. There was news of a man who had died as a result apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound in California on Tuesday, and of another man who had died after reportedly being shot as a result of a long-running family feud in Arkansas on Thursday last week.","Google has denied accusations that one of its Street View cars struck and injured a donkey in Botswana. The California-based company was forced to respond after a Google Street View image of what some claimed was an injured beast was widely shared online.On Tuesday, Reddit users began discussing the image, discovered via the Google Maps service, of a donkey lying on its side in the dust on a road in the Kweneng region of Botswana. Many were outraged, believing the Google car had knocked over the donkey and driven on. Google took the fears of animal- lovers seriously enough to respond, publishing a blog post refuting the claims, with the wry title \u201cNever ass-ume\u201d.Kei Kawa of Google Maps explained. \u201cBecause of the way our 360-degree imagery is put together, it looked to some that our car had been involved in an unseemly hit and run, leaving the humble beast stranded in the road. As our imagery shows, the donkey was lying in the path before moving safely aside as our car drove past.\u201dThe raw images showed parts of the Street View vehicle, proving that it was nowhere near the animal as it passed by.","The audacious daylight shooting of a Russian mafia boss in central Moscow has stoked fears of further score-settling and a return to the bloody gangland wars of the 1990s.Aslan Usoyan, known widely by his nickname \u201cGrandpa Khasan\u201d, was shot on Wednesday afternoon as he left his favourite restaurant on Povarskaya Street in central Moscow.\u201cThe killing of such an influential figure cannot go without revenge from his supporters,\u201d said Alexander Khinshtein, a Russian MP today. \u201cThis is likely to bring about a new wave of attacks and murders.\u201dMoscow is still hit by occasional contract killings, such as the 2009 murder of Vyacheslav Ivankov, a mafia boss known as the Little Japanese, and a failed 2010 attack in which Usoyan was injured. Such attacks have become rarer than they were in the 1990s but this latest attack could spark revenge killings.Analysts of the murky Russian underworld said a number of different groupings could be behind the attack. There is even a somewhat fanciful theory linking the killing to the triple assassination of Kurdish separatists in Paris last week. Usoyan, an ethnic Kurd, was rumoured to be one of the suppliers of illicit weapons to Kurdish separatist movements fighting in Turkey.The most likely culprit appears to be criminal elements loyal to Tariel Oniani, a Georgian gangster who is currently behind bars but who has been Usoyan\u2019s main rival for many years and still has a strong network of lieutenants. There could be revenge attacks against Oniani\u2019s group, as well as score-settling between members of Usoyan\u2019s own grouping as they jockey for influence following the death of their Don.According to Mark Galeotti, a professor at New York University who specialises in the Russian underworld, Usoyan\u2019s nephew Miron has been primed to take over from him ever since the 2010 failed assassination attempt left Usoyan fearful for his life. \u201cBut a lot of people aren\u2019t sure if he is up to it,\u201d Mr Galeotti said. \u201cUsoyan built his criminal network on very personal links and it is not clear whether these loyalties will simply transfer.\u201dUnlike the more sophisticated organised corruption networks that have sprung up in the past decade and are closely interwoven with government structures, underworld figures like Usoyan were a dying breed.\u201cUsoyan was very much a Don Corleone figure,\u201d says Mr Galeotti. \u201cHe had enough links with political structures to ensure that he had protection but he didn\u2019t actually work directly with politicians.\u201dIn news reports on Russian television, Usoyan was openly referred to as a \u201cthief-in-law\u201d and a \u201ccriminal authority\u201d. He was one of the last of the major \u201cthieves-in-law\u201d, the Soviet-era crime bosses whose culture and ethics originated in the Gulags, and his lifestyle was different to the newer class of Russian rich as well. He was an old-school mafia boss who ate at the same kitschy Azerbaijani restaurant most days, where he would receive visitors and other clan bosses keen to settle disputes, and where he was assassinated. He rarely travelled abroad and although he travelled in a four-car motorcade for security he was not ostentatious with his ill-gotten wealth.He was hit in the neck by a sniper hiding in a building across the street from the restaurant, where he had just had lunch. Police said that the gunman used a Val, a sniper rifle with a silencer that has a range of up to 400m and is used by the Russian special forces and elite units of the army.The sniper appears to have had at least one accomplice and to have fired the shots from a fifth-floor window in the stairwell of an apartment block across the street.Police believe they have captured the killer on camera entering the building with a large bag, but the man is wearing a winter coat and hat and none of his features are visible. The \u201ccontrol shots\u201d meant to ensure that the mafia boss was dead instead hit a waitress from the restaurant, who remains in a critical condition in hospital after losing four litres of blood. But one bullet was enough to finish off Usoyan, who died after being rushed to hospital by his bodyguards in his own motorcade.No details about Usoyan\u2019s funeral have been released yet. It is likely to require a huge police presence as criminal bosses from across Russia come to pay their respects.Russian villains: Kingpins in crimeAslan UsoyanBorn in 1937 in Tbilisi, Georgia, Usoyan was an ethnic Kurd who rose to become one of post-Soviet Russia\u2019s most powerful crime bosses. In the only interview he has ever given, he described himself as a \u201cpensioner\u201d, but did not deny that he was a \u201cthief-in-law\u201d.Semyon MogilevichIn a class of his own, Mogilevich is believed to be the most powerful underworld financier and money launderer with wide connections across the crime and political worlds in Russia and neighbouring countries. He is on the FBI\u2019s Ten Most Wanted list, but resides unmolested in Moscow.Tariel OnianiKnown as Tarot, Oniani hails like many of the Soviet-era crime leaders from the republic of Georgia. It is believed that his gang was involved in a bloody turf war with Usoyan\u2019s gang, primarily over lucrative construction contracts involved in the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. He was jailed for 10 years on kidnapping and extortion charges in 2010.Vyacheslav IvankovAlso born in Georgia, Ivankov was ethnic Russian but due to his Asian features was named \u201cthe Little Japanese\u201d. Shot dead in central Moscow in 2009, apparently after mediating a dispute between Oniani and Usoyan.Shaun Walker","The brother of Belfast man Stephen McFaul tonight told how he was hunted and eventually discovered by al-Qa'ida gunmen who took over a gas plant in Algeria.Mr McFaul, a supervisor who drew up work rosters, had just despatched a busload of workers from living quarters to the plant when an attack was launched, killing a security guard on the bus.Stephen McFaul was able to stay in contact with his brother Brian by mobile phone and text before being seized by them, Brian said. The sound of gunfire could be heard as he spoke.After he was discovered in the living quarters the terrorists allowed him to make one further call to his family. Then many hours passed with his family not knowing whether he was dead or alive before he was able to ring his wife with the news that he was safe and well.Brian said last night: \"He said he sent the first bus out, and it was attacked as it was leaving the camp. When he heard gunfire he knew something was up so they all made a run for cover.\"Steve and two others managed to hide in one of the living quarter rooms and locked themselves in. They couldn't see what was happening but they could hear gunfire and they got under beds.\"According to Brian: \"We were talking away to him. He was laughing and joking, saying it's like riots in west Belfast. He was trying to let his mum and dad know he was okay, but you could hear gunfire in the background.\"His messages stopped for several hours, however, until he rang to say he had been captured and to pass on a list of demands, adding that he was being treated well.Brian added: \"We're waiting to hear how he was rescued. He's been through a terrible ordeal, I can only imagine how he felt.\"When news came through that Stevie was free I told mum and dad and they just hugged each other, shouting at the top of their voices, going into the street and shouting it out.\"It was like the best news in the world that you could ever get. We're so delighted but we feel so sorry for other families involved.\"","Aslan Usoyan, the Russian mafia kingpin who was shot dead in broad daylight last week, was buried in a cemetery on the outskirts of Moscow in a carefully guarded ceremony yesterday.Usoyan, 75, better known by his nickname \"Grandpa Khasan\", was killed by a sniper after leaving his favourite restaurant in central Moscow. He was one of the last of the \"thieves-in-law\", the mafia overlords who originated in the Soviet gulag prison camps.Usoyan, an ethnic Yezidi Kurd who began his criminal career in the former Soviet republic of Georgia, was buried in the Khovansky Cemetery just outside Moscow.His relatives had wanted him laid to rest in his birthplace of Tbilisi, but Georgian officials refused permission for the aircraft carrying his remains to land, and the coffin was returned to Moscow on Saturday.Several minibuses with blacked-out windows accompanied the hearse to the cemetery yesterday, and about 100 cars, mainly black sports utility vehicles, were admitted to the grounds. Press and other bystanders were not allowed in. It is believed that criminal authorities from across Russia and the former Soviet Union were in attendance.Usoyan was shot in the head by a sniper hiding in the stairwell of a block of flats across the road from the Azerbaijani restaurant he was known to frequent. Police say the assassin used a Val rifle, an elite weapon used by Russian special forces. Their inquiry continues.","When a masked assailant ran up to Sergei Filin outside his Moscow home, splashing his face with liquid that turned out to be acid, the long-simmering conflict within the Bolshoi Ballet took on a chilling new dimension. Russia's most prestigious theatre has been riven with intrigue for many years, and the petty bickering and public insults that have come from those dancers unhappy with the theatre's personnel and repertoire policy have almost become part of the theatre's brand. But never before have the rivalries escalated into a full-blown physical attack.Mr Filin, 42, was made artistic director of the Bolshoi's ballet troupe in 2011. Although he had previously received threats, had his email account hacked and messages published online, and had the tyres slashed on his car, the acid attack on him on Thursday last week has plunged the Moscow ballet world into shock and despair.The first operation on his eyes, on Saturday, was a success, and he will undergo another operation this week. Doctors are confident that he will regain sight, though he also has severe burns to much of his face. Police have arrested one person believed to be behind the email hacking, but are still investigating the acid attack. A police spokesman said early tests suggest the assailant used sulphuric acid.Mr Filin's personal assistant said yesterday that he is \"an extremely courageous man\", and is trying to continue as normal. He is discussing theatre matters from his hospital bed, and his family are reading him emails that come in. \"We are hoping he will be back at the theatre within a couple of months,\" she said.The attack has again shone the spotlight on intrigue at the Bolshoi, the iconic theatre located just a stone's throw from the Kremlin in central Moscow.\"He grew up in this theatre, and everyone here knows him well,\" said Anastasia Meskova, a Bolshoi soloist who previously danced in a pair with Mr Filin and now works in productions he directs. \"He's very kind, but he's also extremely demanding in the best sense of the word. I just can't believe that among the people we know at the theatre there is someone who could do this.\"The Bolshoi has always been something more than just a theatre. A symbol of Tsarist opulence, the Bolsheviks initially wanted to blow it up after the 1917 revolution. In the end, they kept the theatre, but transformed it into a symbol of Soviet power; Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin made key speeches from its stage, and at the height of the Great Terror in 1937 the NKVD secret police held a gala to celebrate their achievements. In the later Soviet years, both the opera and ballet troupes became world-famous, but political concerns meant that often those who were deemed \"politically unreliable\" were not allowed to travel on foreign tours.The legendary ballet dancer Maya Plisetskaya, who danced at the Bolshoi for nearly five decades between 1943 and 1990, wrote in her autobiography about the backstage squabbling and infighting among different groups of dancers at the Bolshoi. She was persecuted both for her Jewish origins and for her unwillingness to attend the obligatory weekly Communist Party meetings at the theatre.The rivalries continued into the post-Soviet era. The former Bolshoi ballerina Anastasia Volochkova, who was famously fired in 2003 for being too fat, said the Bolshoi's leadership, led by general director Anatoly Iksanov, is to blame for the deteriorating situation. \"After I was fired, I was taking the theatre to court for unfair dismissal, because all the dancers had signed a document saying I was too heavy to lift, and they all came to me afterwards and apologised, saying they were forced into doing it,\" Ms Volochkova told The Independent yesterday. \"People came to me with threats, even with knives, telling me to drop the case. Is that normal? Is this normal for a theatre?\"The Bolshoi administration has always denied that there was any ulterior motive behind Ms Volochkova's dismissal. It has also denied her claims that leading ballerinas were effectively pimped out by the theatre as escorts for wealthy Russian businessmen.The Bolshoi's spokesperson, Katerina Novikova, admitted there is tension at the theatre, but said the common perception of all-out war among different dancing factions is exaggerated. \"There are 220 dancers; there are 3,000 people at the theatre. Of course, when you take decisions there will be people who are unhappy with them,\" she said. \"But this is not normal rivalry. This is the act of one crazy person, it does not mean that the theatre itself is in trouble.\"There have long been signs that all is not well at the Bolshoi, however. Gennady Yanin resigned as director of the ballet troupe in 2011 after pornographic photographs in which he allegedly featured were posted online, and the squabbling has led to young talents, such as the dance pairing Natalia Osipova and Ivan Vasiliev, who are tipped for global stardom, leaving the Bolshoi for new pastures.Nikolai Tsiskaridze, the Bolshoi's lead male dancer, has fallen out with the management and is effectively barred from dancing at the theatre. He has begun a public campaign against the leadership and has called for Mr Iksanov to be toppled. He wishes to take over himself. Over the weekend, the dancer said he had nothing to do with the acid attack, and added that he expected it was linked to personal or financial problems. \"Such things have always happened,\" he told Moskovskii Komsomolets newspaper.Ms Novikova, Mr Filin's assistant, and other sources at the theatre all insisted that Mr Filin has no personal or financial problems and were sure the attack was due to professional jealousies.After the attack on Mr Filin, other Russian theatre directors have come forward to say they had also received physical threats. Kirill Serebrennikov, a radical young director who has staged an opera at the Bolshoi but is better known for his film and theatre work, published a threat he received on New Year's Eve via SMS. \"If you don't get out of the Gogol Theatre, YOU will be next,\" reads the message, which came after one of his assistants was assaulted after leaving the theatre, a traditional Soviet-era institution that Mr Serebrennikov wants to modernise. \"Happy new year\u2026 We'll beat you up properly this time. Watch out.\"\"It's unthinkable. We are artists, this is art,\" said Ms Meskova of the attack and threats. \"What does any of this have to do with art? It is just disgusting.\"","A teenage boy fatally shot two adults and three children inside a home in Albuquerque New Mexico, authorities said.The teenager, believed to be about 15 years old, was arrested and faces two murder charges and three counts of child abuse resulting in death in connection with the shootings on Saturday night.Each victim was shot more than once. The victims' identities have not been released, and the boy's motive and connection to them were not known. The Bernalillo County sheriff's spokesman Aaron Williamson said investigators were trying to determine if the victims were related.","A canoeist died after being pulled from a river in a resuce operation yesterday. The man, in his 30s, became trapped in debris in the River Arkle in the Yorkshire Dales.Elsewhere, a woman and two-year-old were rescued after falling into the River Thames in Isleworth, while in Somerset a six-month-old baby was rescued after strong winds blew his buggy into Watchet Harbour.","An NHS worker killed his partner in a planned attack then spent a week on board a river cruiser with her daughter before drowning himself, an inquest has heard.The body of hospice nurse Annette Creegan, 49, was found naked, strangled and weighted down in the River Bure on the Norfolk Broads last September following a major police search.The body of her partner, John Didier, 41, was found nearby and evidence suggests he drowned himself by tying dumbbells to his limbs and jumping overboard, the inquest at Norwich Coroner's Court heard.A search was launched after a river worker alerted police on September 1 to the discovery of Ms Creegan's 13-year-old daughter alone on a boat moored near isolated Salhouse Broad.When she was interviewed, the girl said they had arrived for a holiday on the Broads on August 25 and the following day she woke to find her mother was not there.Detective Constable Christina Stone told the inquest: \u201cThey had moored the boat at about 5.30pm on the Friday.\u201dThe following day she woke up and Mr Didier told her that Annette had left.\u201cShe had no access to a mobile telephone and no means of getting off the boat so stayed there over the following days.\u201dSix days later she woke up and there was no sign of Mr Didier and she was rescued by a passing Broads ranger.\u201cMs Creegan's elderly mother and two brothers attended the inquest along with Mr Didier's brother and sister-in-law who travelled from his homeland in the US.The inquest heard Mr Didier's body was found later on September 1.He had drowned and was found immersed in water, weighted down with two 17.5kg dumbbells tied to his feet and two 15kg weights tied to his wrists, pathologist Ben Swift said.Ms Creegan's body was found in the water nearby the following afternoon.Mr Swift said she was naked and her hands had been tied behind her knees with cable ties. She was weighted down with a 30kg dumbbell and had been strangled.The decomposed state of the body suggested she had been in the water for about a week.Bruises to her fists suggested she had tried to fight off Mr Didier but there was no evidence of sexual abuse.Reliving the moment he found the girl alone, Broads Authority ranger Andrew Ellson said he noticed the boat moored in the secluded spot several days earlier. He was returning from a routine patrol when he decided to approach it.He said: \u201dThe curtains were closed and the motor was running. I knocked on the side of the boat and the window opened. I saw a young girl who told me she was by herself.\u201cDetective Inspector Gary Bloomfield said a thorough investigation was carried out.He added: \u201dI'm confident in saying John Didier had killed Annette and then taken his own life a number of days later.\u201cIt seems he had in some way planned the events of that week.\u201dThere was no evidence he was mentally impaired and it was a deliberate decision to kill Annette then drown himself.\u201cOutside the inquest, he added that officers had found no evidence of any tension in the relationship and Mr Didier's motive remained unclear.On the night of her mother's death, the girl slept undisturbed and did not hear any argument.The boat was not locked but was surrounded by marsh and woodland with no footpaths so she felt unable to leave.There was no evidence she or Mr Didier left the boat following Ms Creegan's death and no one else had been on board.The family hired the Le Boat cruiser from nearby Horning and were familiar with the area from previous holidays. They had stocked up on food and the girl was fed throughout the week.It is thought Mr Didier bought the weights and cable ties with the intention of murdering Ms Creegan before leaving Surrey, Mr Bloomfield said.Norfolk coroner William Armstrong recorded a verdict that Ms Creegan died as a result of unlawful killing, probably on August 25.He recorded a verdict that Mr Didier committed suicide on either August 31 or September 1.He added: \u201dWhat a grotesque irony that this happened in the idyllic setting of the Norfolk Broads - what a contrast between the calm serenity of the waters and this dreadful tragedy.\u201cMs Creegan, born in Balham, worked as a community nurse for the Trinity Hospice charity in Clapham Common, south-west London, while Mr Didier, originally from Kettering, Ohio, had worked in IT for the NHS but was unemployed at the time.Afterwards, Mr Bloomfield said: \u201dI hope that today's inquest has answered some of the questions about what happened on Salhouse Broad and we continue to offer the family support at this difficult time.\u201cI would also like to offer my condolences to the family of John Didier.\u201dBoth families declined to comment as they left the inquest.The girl is being cared for by family.PA","Police have launched an investigation after a man died when he was hit by a metal sign falling from a betting shop in North London.The as-yet unnamed man, who is believed to be in his 20s, was walking past the William Hill bookmakers in Camden Road when the shop's large metal sign fell to the pavement and hit him.He was treated at the scene for a head injury but died later in hospital, the London Ambulance Service said.\"Every effort was made to resuscitate him at the scene and on the way to University College Hospital,\" an LAS spokeswoman said.Police cordoned off the area and forensics officers examined the scene where the man died. Health and safety investigators also entered a flat above the shop to take photographs of the sign, which was made of metal and measured approximately 30ft.Last night a bunch of flowers was left at the scene by a member of the public as a mark of respect.A William Hill spokeswoman said: \"There is an urgent investigation under way and we are still establishing facts and liaising with authorities.\"As such, we don't have a comment to make at this time.\"Ioana Nita, 21, was working at a nearby restaurant when the accident happened at 4.55pm.\"I'm shocked. We heard a very loud noise. Me and a colleague went outside and saw the guy lying on the floor,\" she said.\"Five guys picked up the sign and it was put on the side. His hands were covered in blood and he wasn't moving.\"Lots of people were in a circle around him, then the ambulance arrived and they were trying to get him back to life, pressing on his heart.\"She added: \"I just want to go home and cry. I don't know how that can happen. The sign is huge. Everyone said he was just walking past the shop.\"I cross that way five times a day. That could have been me.\"Ken Osbourne, 28, who works at the nearby Woody Grill restaurant, said: \"I saw the guy lying down in the road, covered in blood.\"The main impact was clearly on his head. I saw them trying to resuscitate him in the back of the ambulance.\"Mr Osbourne added: \"Hundreds of people walk past here every day. It could've been me or any one of them. The shop has been there for about 10 years.\"A Scotland Yard spokesman said: \"Officers and London Ambulance Service attended and the man, believed to be aged in his 20s, was taken to a central London hospital for treatment. He died there a short while later.\"At this early stage it appears the man received his injuries after being struck by a sign or board which has fallen from a building.\"","A 32-year-old British man has been arrested by French police investigating the murder and sexual assault of a woman jogger in the southern city of Nimes last week.The man, who has not been named but is from Chatham in Kent, lives with his parents in a house 300 metres from the secluded footpath where the woman\u2019s body was found in a clump of brambles.He was arrested on last night after a doctor said that scratches on his hands and arms could have been caused by bramble spines. According to the website of the France 2 television channel, his DNA matches traces found on the woman\u2019s body.Jouddia Zimat, 33, a mother of three, was attacked while out for her daily jog at Courbessac, near Nimes in the south of France, last Thursday.She was beaten with a heavy object and her face was slashed by a cardboard cutter \u2013 the\u00a0 blade was found nearby.A similar cutter was found in the suspect\u2019s home, according to another TV channel, France 3.Investigators say that Ms Zimat was sexually assaulted but not raped. They believe that she fought her assailant for several minutes.","A 32-year-old British man has been arrested by French police investigating the murder and sexual assault of a woman jogger in the southern city of Nimes last week.The man, who has not been named but is from Chatham in Kent, lives with his parents in a house 300 metres from the secluded footpath where the woman\u2019s body was found in a clump of brambles.He was arrested on last night after a doctor said that scratches on his hands and arms could have been caused by bramble spines. According to the website of the France 2 television channel, his DNA matches traces found on the woman\u2019s body.Jouddia Zimat, 33, a mother of three, was attacked while out for her daily jog at Courbessac, near Nimes in the south of France, last Thursday.She was beaten with a heavy object and her face was slashed by a cardboard cutter \u2013 the\u00a0 blade was found nearby.A similar cutter was found in the suspect\u2019s home, according to another TV channel, France 3.Investigators say that Ms Zimat was sexually assaulted but not raped. They believe that she fought her assailant for several minutes.","President Barack Obama travelled to Las Vegas to confirm his determination to make overhauling America\u2019s bewildering immigration system a top priority for his second term in office, and opening a path to citizenship for the 11 million people already in the country illegally.He spoke one day after a bipartisan group of senators on Capitol Hill came forward with their own plan for immigration reform. The sudden focus on the topic is driven by electoral concerns. Mr Obama was propelled back to the White House in part by strong Hispanic support while Republicans fear the party\u2019s future depends on winning back Latino voters turned off by past anti-immigrant rhetoric.\u201cWe need Congress to act on a comprehensive approach that finally deals with the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are in this country right now,\u201d the President declared. \u201cThe good news is that \u2013 for the first time in many years \u2013 Republicans and Democrats seem ready to tackle this problem together. It looks like there\u2019s a genuine desire to get this done soon.\u00a0 And that\u2019s very encouraging.\u201dWhile White House officials have welcomed the initiative of the eight senators, who include on the Republican side both Marco Rubio of Florida and John McCain of Arizona, they also know that serial pitfalls lie ahead. The bipartisan comity could easily fall apart on Capitol Hill before the legislation gets anywhere. Equally fragile is any ceasefire on the issue between Congress and the President.Even before Mr Obama spoke, Senator Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate, briskly warned him against \u201cdelivering another divisive partisan speech\u201d in Las Vegas. Senator Rubio, seen by some as a likely contender for his party\u2019s presidential nomination in 2016, in part because of his Cuban heritage, meanwhile accused the White House of trying to play down elements of the package on tightening border controls.\u201cThat would be a terrible mistake,\u201d he told Fox News. \u201cWe have a bipartisan group of senators that have agreed to that. For the president to try to move the goalposts on that specific requirement, as an example, does not bode well in terms of what his role\u2019s going to be in this or the outcome.\u201dRepublicans are also likely to bristle at Mr Obama\u2019s decision to seek special dispensation for gay couples where one is American and the other is from overseas. He wants any legislation to include provisions to help such couples remain together in the US.\u201cThe president has long believed that Americans with same-sex partners from other countries should not be faced with the painful choice between staying with the person they love or staying in the country they love,\u201d his spokesman, Jay Carney, told reporters en route to Las Vegas. Other likely sticking points in the negotiations include how long and how narrow a path should be opened for undocumented aliens in the US. Until now even the idea of allowing them off the hook has been seen by conservatives as tantamount to amnesty \u2013 and therefore anathema. But the shock of Mitt Romney losing to Mr Obama is changing Republican minds.The general idea would be to invite the 11 million to come out of the shadows and get permission to remain and work in the US while they seek permanent resident status. But to reach that goal they would have join the end of the queue behind those being processed for legal residency. That could mean waiting years but at least the risk of being caught and deported would be lifted.","Senator John Kerry attended a private dinner party in Washington on Monday night hosted by William Hague along with such luminaries as George Schultz, Condoleezza Rice and former Federal Reserve boss Alan Greenspan. He was not, however, the guest of honour. Hillary was.This might seem topsy-turvy. It is Mr Kerry who will be serving as America\u2019s top diplomat in the years ahead (he was due to be confirmed as the new Secretary of State by the US Senate last night) while Hillary Clinton is about to fade into retirement. Yet it is she who has been hogging the limelight to an indecent degree. Today it was a global town hall meeting. On Sunday she appeared with Barack Obama on \u201860 Minutes\u2019.Why are we so loath to let her go? Is it her work ethic or just the fact of her having taken the job in the first place given how hard she fought to stop Barack Obama\u2019s White House quest in 2008? Was she was so fantastic a Secretary of State anyway? Last week, she blew up on Capitol Hill while being grilled about what lay behind the attack on the consulate in Benghazi. Does it really matter, she asked? Err. Well, yes.Beneath all the extravagant gestures of farewell is something else of course: See you soon! In the last days not one but two political action committees have been formed to promote Ms Clinton as the 2016 Democratic nominee for president. Elisa from Germany asked the burning question in the global town hall. Will you run? \u201cRight now I am inclined not to do that,\u201d Ms Clinton responded with a very broad smile.No sound of a door-slam in that answer. If she goes for it, Ms Clinton would be a formidable candidate. It would be bad news for Joe Biden, who clearly also wants the top job. She would have the money, the network of supporters as well as the backing of that other shockingly popular top gun, her husband.Ms Clinton will be 69 in 2016. But it isn\u2019t that that might yet stop her. By then, the US will have had eight years of Barack Obama and may simply be in the mood to put a Republican back in the White House come what may. Ms Clinton may run but only if the risk of her losing again is decently low. Otherwise, no thanks.","Gabrielle Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman who suffered a grievous brain injury in a mass shooting in her Tucson constituency two years ago, made a surprise appearance at the first hearing on gun violence on Capitol Hill since last month's Newtown shooting.Accompanied by Mark Kelly, her husband and a Nasa astronaut, Ms Giffords held a packed Senate Judiciary Committee room in her thrall as she struggled to get her words out. \"Speaking is difficult. But I need to say something important,\" she told the senators. \"Violence is a big problem. Too many children are dying \u2013 too many children. We must do something. It will be hard. But the time is now.\"The high drama introduced by Ms Giffords hardly dissipated as witnesses and senators from both sides of the gun control issue tried to score points. As the prejudices spilled out it became harder to imagine that the gulf between them \u2013 gun control advocates on one side and defenders of the second amendment right to own guns on the other \u2013 will ever be bridged.Much of the tangling in the proceedings involved Wayne LaPierre, the head of the powerful National Rifle Association, who set out his opposition to changes in the law including to proposals outlined earlier this month by President Barack Obama as a response to the Newtown massacre which left 20 children dead.\"Law-abiding gun owners will not accept blame for the acts of deranged criminals,\" said Mr LaPierre, pictured right, who argues the best response to Newtown would be to put armed security guards in all schools. \"Nor do we believe the government should dictate what we can lawfully own and use to protect our families.\"Mr Obama has asked Congress to ban the sale of most assault weapons, including the AR-15 rife used in Newtown, as well as of high capacity bullet clips. He is also asking lawmakers to close gaping loopholes in the background checks that are meant to occur before a gun sale. Guns bought from private citizens, for instance at gun shows, account for about 40 per cent of all sales in America. Such purchases are not subject to background checks.Questions from Republican senators, including Lindsey Graham of North Carolina, meanwhile served as a reminder that the Obama proposals will face strong headwinds not just in the Democrat-controlled Senate but also in the House of Representatives where the Republicans are in the majority. By most reckonings, only the plans for a closing of the background check loopholes stand any real chance of becoming law.Senator Graham signalled, for example, his opposition to an end to the sale of high-capacity magazines because it might impede the ability of citizens to defend themselves. In the kind of statement that would leave most gun-control activists gaping he asserted: \"There can be a situation where a mother runs out of bullets because of what we do here\". In the same intervention, he suggested: \"In some circumstances the AR-15 makes perfect sense.\" Charles Schumer, the Democrat Senator from New York and a powerful voice for tougher controls, portrayed some of his despair at the approach taken by the other side, notably when espousing the notion that guns are not to blame in mass shootings, the owners of the guns are. \"Not including guns when discussing mass killings is like not discussing cigarettes when discussing lung cancer,\" he said.Mr Kelly, who with his wife recently founded a new group dedicated to curbing gun violence called Americans for Responsible Solutions, sought to offer a moderate voice in an otherwise often immoderate debate. \"Gabby and I are pro-gun ownership,\" he said. \"We are also anti-gun violence. And we believe that in this debate, Congress should look not towards special interests and ideology \u2013 which push us apart \u2013 but towards compromise, which brings us together.\"Echoing the dignity of his wife's brief appearance, he shook hands with Mr LaPierre as he walked out. Later, in his home state, three people would be injured in a shooting in Phoenix.Wayne Lapierre: In his own words\"Law-abiding gun owners will not accept blame for the acts of violent or deranged criminals. Nor do we believe the government should dictate what we can lawfully own and use to protect our families.Proposals that would only serve to burden the law-abiding have failed in the past and they'll fail again. What people... fear today is that they are going to be abandoned by their country. If a tornado hits, if a hurricane hits, if a riot occurs, that they are going to be out there alone and the only way they are going protect themselves in the cold, in the dark, is with a firearm. I think that indicates how... essential the Second Amendment is to fundamental human survival.\"","Police swat teams and hostage negotiators were locked in a stand-off today with a gunman authorities say intercepted a school bus, killed the driver, snatched a six-year-old boy and retreated into a bunker at his home in Alabama.The gunman, identified by neighbours as Jimmy Lee Dykes, a 65-year-old retired truck driver, was known as \"the crazy man\" of the neighbourhood, a paranoid and combative man who once beat a dog to death with a lead pipe, threatened to shoot children for setting foot on his property and patrolled his yard at night with a flashlight and a shotgun.He was supposed to appear in court today to answer charges that he shot at his neighbours in a dispute last month over a speed bump.The siege, which began yesterday when the gunman boarded a stopped school bus in the small town of Midland City, dragged on through the night and into the afternoon today, authorities said.Sheriff Wally Olsen said the man shot the driver when he refused to hand over a six-year-old child. The gunman then took the boy away.\"As far as we know there is no relation at all. He just wanted a child for a hostage situation,\" said Michael Senn, a church pastor who helped comfort the traumatised children after the attack.Dykes was believed to be holed up in an underground bunker of the sort used to take shelter from a tornado, County Coroner Woodrow Hilboldt said.The bus driver, Charles Albert Poland Jr, 66, was hailed by locals as a hero who gave his life to protect 21 students.About 50 vehicles from federal, state and local agencies were clustered at the end of a dirt road near Dykes' home today. Authorities gave no details on the stand-off, and it was not immediately clear whether they had made contact with Dykes or he had made any demands.Homes nearby were evacuated early in the morning after authorities found what was believed to be a bomb on his property.Mike and Patricia Smith, who live across the street from Dykes and whose two children were on the bus when the shooting happened, said their youngsters had a run-in with him about 10 months ago.\"My bulldogs got loose and went over there,\" Mrs Smith said. \"The children went to get them. He threatened to shoot them if they came back.\"\"He's very paranoid,\" her husband said. \"He goes around in his yard at night with a flashlight and shotgun.\"Everybody up the hill tried to avoid him.\"Mrs Smith said her children told her what happened on the bus. Two other children had just been dropped off and the Smith children were next. Dykes stepped on to the bus and grabbed the door so the driver could not close it. Dykes told the driver he wanted two boys, six to eight years old, without saying why.According to Mrs Smith, Dykes started down the aisle of the bus and the driver put his arm out to block him. Dykes fired four shots at Mr Poland with a handgun, she said.\"He did give his life, saving children,\" Mr Smith said.Mrs Smith said her daughter, a high school senior, began corralling the other children and headed for the back of the bus while Dykes and the driver were arguing. Later, Mrs Smith's son ran inside his house, telling his mother: \"The crazy man across the street shot the bus driver and Mr Poland won't wake up.\"Mrs Smith ran over to the bus and saw the driver slumped over in his seat. Her daughter used another child's mobile phone to call police.Another neighbour, Ronda Wilbur, said Dykes beat her dog with a lead pipe for coming on to his side of the dirt road. The dog died a week later.\"He said his only regret was he didn't beat him to death all the way,\" Ms Wilbur said. She called animal control, who came out and talked to Dykes, but nothing else happened. \"If a man can kill a dog, and beat it with a lead pipe and brag about it, it's nothing until it's going to be people.\"Court records showed Dykes had been scheduled to appear in court today to face a charge of menacing some neighbours as they drove past his house weeks ago.Claudia Davis said he yelled and fired shots at her, her son and her baby grandson over damage Dykes claimed their pick-up truck did to a makeshift speed bump in the dirt road. No-one was hurt.\"Before this happened, I would see him at several places and he would just stare a hole through me,\" Ms Davis said. \"On Monday I saw him at a laundromat and he seen me when I was getting in my truck, and he just stared and stared and stared at me.\"","A 20-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of a teenager believed to have been attacked by a gang wielding swords and knives.Hani Abou El Kheir, 16, died from multiple stab wounds after he was set upon on the edge of Pimlico, one of London's most affluent neighbourhoods, on Sunday evening in a suspected drugs-related attack.The suspect was arrested in north London during an early morning raid, Scotland Yard said.Police believe at least 10 people were involved in the incident.The teenager, who lived on the nearby Churchill Gardens estate, was taken to King's College Hospital but died later.Detectives said they are keeping an \"open mind\" regarding a motive and are being assisted by a number of witnesses who have already come forward.Detective Chief Inspector Neil Attewell, of the Homicide and Serious Crime Command, said Hani suffered a \"horrific and sustained vicious attack\".He added: \"The tragic events of last Sunday have left Hani's mother and wider family completely devastated.\"Hani's mother has lost her only child and is still coming to terms with the heartbreaking events that have led to the death of her son.\"I am directly appealing to the parents and carers of those believed to be involved - if you have slightest indication that your child may have been involved in this incident I encourage you to get them to hand themselves in to the police. Failing to do so will result in my officers pursuing them until we have caught all those responsible.\"A note from the victim's mother, Pauline Hickey, was left with flowers at the scene where he died.It read: \"My baby. My heart is broken. I love you so much, the pain is unbearable. Your loving mother.\"Another tribute attached to a nearby bus stop was a copy of a touching note written by Hani to his mother, alongside a picture of him as a child.It said: \"Thank you for being the best mum. Love to mummy, thank you for everything. Love from Hani.\"The tribute was signed by relatives including the teenager's grandparents, and cousins in Ireland.PA","A gunman opened fire at an office complex in Arizona's largest city yesterday, killing the CEO of a company, wounding two other people and setting off a manhunt. Police warned the public that the suspect was \u201carmed and dangerous.\u201dAuthorities identified the suspect as Arthur D. Harmon, who they said opened fire at the end of a mediation session. Authorities believe Harmon acted alone and fled the scene in a car after the 10:30 am shooting. Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a Phoenix police spokesman.Harmon allegedly shot at someone who tried to follow him after the shooting in an attempt to get his license plate number, according to authorities.Authorities identified a man who died hours after the shooting as 48-year-old Steve Singer. Police believe he was the target of the attack, along with a 43-year-old man who was wounded, Thompson said.\"It was not a random shooting,\" Thompson said.According to court documents, Harmon had filed a lawsuit against Scottsdale-based Fusion Contact Centers LLC, where Singer was the CEO.The wounded man was listed in critical condition. A 32-year-old woman suffered non-life threatening injuries.America's latest public shooting came on the same day Congress took up the issue of gun control for the first time since the Connecticut school shooting in December left 20 young children dead and changed the national conversation on guns.Former\u00a0Arizona\u00a0Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot in the head during a 2011 shooting rampage in Tucson that left 6 people dead, appeared in Washington to testify in favour of stricter gun controls.As police searched for the suspect in yesterday's shooting, Swat teams and two armoured vehicles surrounded a home about 7 miles (11 kilometers) from the shooting scene. Police served a search warrant to enter the home, which county property records show was sold by Harmon to his son last year for $26,000.For a time, officers, believing the shooter might be inside, used a megaphone to ask him to surrender.The gunfire at the office complex prompted terrified workers to lock the doors to their offices and hide far from the windows. Swat officers searched the building.\"Everyone was just scared, honestly, just scared,\" said Navika Sood, assistant director of nursing at First at Home Health Services who along with her co-workers locked the entrances to their office.Sood said police evacuated the office about 30 minutes after she first heard the popping noises.Police didn't immediately release the names of the wounded. But a Phoenix law firm, Osborn Maledon, said one of its lawyers, Mark Hummels, was among the wounded. The firm said he \"was representing a client in a mediation\" when he was shot.According to court documents, Harmon was scheduled to go to a law office in the same building where the shooting took place for a settlement conference in lawsuit he filed last April against Fusion. Hummels was representing Fusion in the lawsuit.The company had hired Harmon to refurbish office cubicles at two call centers in California, but a contract dispute arose.Fusion said Harmon was paid nearly $30,000 under the $47,000 contract but asked him to repay much of the money when the company discovered that the cubicles could not be refurbished, according to the documents.Harmon argued Fusion hung him out to dry by telling him to remove and store 206 \"worthless\" work stations after the mix-up was discovered. Harmon said Fusion then told him that the company decided to use a competitor.Harmon's lawsuit had sought payment for the remainder of the contract, $20,000 in damages and reimbursement for storage fees and legal costs.Pro tempore Judge Ira Schwartz, who scheduled the meeting, did not immediately return an email seeking comment. A message left Wednesday at Singer's home also was not returned.Vanessa Brogan, who works in sales support at an insurance business in the three-storey complex, said she heard a loud bang that she thought at first was from somebody working in or near the building.She said others at the business thought they heard multiple loud noises. She said people locked themselves in offices until authorities evacuated the complex that houses insurance, medical and law offices.Becky Neher, who works for a title company in the building, said the two gunshots she heard sounded like two pieces of metal banging against each other.Watching from her second-story office, she saw people leaving the building.\"Someone yelled, 'We have a shooter,\"' she said. She saw two victims lying on the ground outside the back side of the building. She said health care workers who have offices in the complex came out to help.AP","Two ethnic Tibetans have been given harsh sentences after they were convicted of murder for \"goading\" people to set themselves on fire, in a signal that Beijing has no plans to ease the pressure on Tibet.Since February 2009, more than 90 Tibetans, many of them young monks or nuns in western China, have self-immolated, with most dying.Lorang Konchok, 40, was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve, a sentence frequently commuted to life imprisonment, and his nephew, Losang Tsering, 31, was jailed for 10 years, the official Xinhua news agency reported.The two men \"incited and coerced\" eight people to self-immolate, resulting in three deaths, the Intermediate People's Court of Aba prefecture in Sichuan province, found. Of the eight, three set themselves on fire and died in 2012, while the other five either abandoned their plans or were stopped when police intervened. Self-immolation has become the dominant form of political protest among ethnic Tibetans.","A fire has destroyed a camel farm in the Black Forest area, killing 86 animals.The fire broke out early today and, although the farm's 73-year-old owner was able to save five of his camels, the rest were trapped in their stalls and died. Property worth \u20ac2m (\u00a31.7m) was destroyed, but the value of the camels is unknown.It took around 100 firefighters to bring the blaze under control. Experts are still trying to determine the cause, but say there is no immediate sign of arson.The farm near Stuttgart, which offered camel rides and sold camel milk, had been in operation for decades.","Two women convicted of the \"grotesque and incomprehensible\" murder and torture of a grandfather turned on one another as they were jailed for life.Kelly Barnes, 32, and Jodie Barnes, 31, who are civil partners, will each serve a minimum of 24 years for murdering Barry Reeve, 67, a retired bus conductor, at his home in Norwich.The pair, who had both denied murder and blamed each other, had to be removed from the dock at Norwich Crown Court by prison guards. Kelly Barnes swore and accused her partner of being a liar.The court heard that they believed he had hidden money and tortured him in an attempt to make him reveal his Pin. He was punched, stamped on and slashed with a knife, and lay dying for up to 48 hours after the attack.","Residents have fled their homes after a blaze engulfed a restaurant and a number of flats.Firefighters were called to St James Way in Sidcup, Kent, at 4.30am today after flames tore through the three-storey building.Sixteen people escaped before fire crews arrived, and there are no reports of any injuries, London Fire Brigade (LFB) said. The fire is now under control.The building is believed to include a restaurant on the ground floor with a number of flats on two floors above it.An LFB spokeswoman said when firefighters arrived the ground floor of the building was \"100% alight\", while the first floor was \"50% alight\".Eight fire engines attended the scene, and fire crews used three jets to tackle the blaze as well as thermal imaging cameras, LFB said.PA","Two teenage robbers who raided a jewellery store and then shot at members of the public as they gave chase have been jailed.Momim Hassan, 17, and Tajwar Shah, 16, went armed with a hammer and a blank firing gun to Vinsons Jewellers in Station Road, Edgware, north London, on November 16 last year.At 11.20am they went to the shop front, smashed a window with the hammer and tried to steal some of the jewellery on display.But a female staff member challenged them and they got into a struggle, during which Shah fired the gun into the air.Passers-by and other shop workers chased the pair down nearby Station Road and Shah turned his gun on them, firing in their direction.The pursuers then spotted the two boys trying to change their clothes in a car park, and after another chase the pair were caught by members of the public, before being arrested by police.Officers found a bag belonging to the teenagers which contained a stun gun and a key to a car parked nearby which had false number plates and had been taken from a relative of Shah's without them knowing.Hassan, of Devonshire Road, Barnet, north London, and Shah, of St Edmunds Drive, Stanmore, north-west London, were jailed for four years and three-and-a-half years respectively at Wood Green Crown Court yesterday.They had pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to robbery and possession of an imitation firearm, Scotland Yard said.Hassan also pleaded guilty to possessing a stun gun.The pair were named after a judge lifted restrictions that prevented them being identified.Speaking after the sentencing, Detective Constable Tim Fines, from the Flying Squad, said: \"The judge has commended the bravery of those members of the public who pursued and detained these two males - I would like to reiterate this praise.\"Thanks to their efforts, and the efforts of officers who attended the scene, two dangerous males are behind bars.\"PA","One might imagine the last thing that Barack Obama\u2019s advisers would want as he pushes for tighter gun laws is for the President to be seen with a shotgun wedged against his shoulder.But that\u2019s exactly what the White House released at the weekend \u2013 an image of the President skeet (or clay pigeon) shooting, after his claim in a recent interview that he indulged in the sport \u201call the time\u201d triggered scepticism among gun-rights advocates.Well aware that most Americans still oppose a blanket ban on guns, his advisers rushed out the image at the weekend to reaffirm his support for, as he put it last month, \u201cour strong tradition of gun ownership and the rights of hunters and sportsmen.\u201d","A man has been charged with the murder of a former sniper and US Navy Seal who was shot dead at point-blank range in Texas.Chris Kyle, who documented his career overseas in his best-selling autobiographical book American Sniper and became notorious for notching up the highest number of killings by a sniper in US military history, was one of two men shot dead at a gun range in Erath County on Saturday.Another ex-soldier, identified as 25-year-old Eddie Ray Routh, was charged with two counts of murder today. The suspect was said by local media to be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). No reason for the shootings has been revealed.Authorities responded to the shooting at around 5:30pm local time on Saturday. According to the official account, Mr Routh opened fire on Mr Kyle and Mr Littlefield at around 3:30pm before fleeing in a Ford pick-up truck.He was later apprehended at his home in Lancaster, around 17 miles south-east of Dallas.Mr Kyle undertook four tours of duty and won two Silver Stars and five Bronze Stars for bravery during his career. While on duty between 1999 and 2009, he killed 160 insurgents, prompting Iraqi insurgents to nickname him \u201cthe Devil\u201d and reportedly place a $20,000 bounty on his head.In an interview with the BBC last year, Mr Kyle said he didn\u2019t feel any remorse for his actions.\u201cIt is a weird feeling. Seeing an actual dead body ... knowing that you\u2019re the one that caused it now to no longer move,\u201d he admitted.He added: \u201cEvery person I killed I strongly believe that they were bad. When I do go face God there is going to be lots of things I will have to account for but killing any of those people is not one of them.\u201dAfter retiring from the Navy, he founded Craft International, which provided training to military and law enforcement clients, and helped found Fitco Cares, a foundation set up to provide help for veterans suffering from PTSD.Two weeks ago, in an interview with the Guns.com website, Mr Kyle spoke against the push for greater firearms control in the wake of the Newtown school massacre in December.\u201cWhen people aren\u2019t afraid because they know everyone \u2013 the populace \u2013 is unarmed, what\u2019s going to deter them from attacking someone, robbing or committing a crime?\u201d he said.Mr Kyle is listed as the co-author of American Gun, A History of the US in Ten Firearms, which is due to be released in May.In it, Mr Kyle recounts his experiences of firing guns from various stages in US history, \u201cmaking the sweeping argument that the American story has been tied to and shaped by the gun\u201d, according to the Amazon.com description.","Every day, as many as 1,500 migrants alight from the notorious freight train known as La Bestia (\u201cThe Beast\u201d) as it terminates on the outskirts of Mexico City.As if the journey was not dangerous enough, members of Mexico\u2019s most powerful and violent criminal gangs lie in wait as the migrants \u2013 mainly Central Americans \u2013 then traverse the 20km route between the railway tracks and the shelter for undocumented migrants in Huehuetoca.\u201c[The gangs] wait as people get off the train,\u201d says Jorg\u00e9 Andrade, who worked at the San Jos\u00e9 migrant shelter, run by a collective known\u00a0 as Ustedes Somos Nosotros (\u201cYou\u00a0 Are Us\u201d).\u201cThe people are usually dirty, tired and hungry when they arrive,\u201d says Mr Andrade. \u201cThey\u2019ve often been riding the train for seven or eight days. The criminals make them pay a toll to walk the 20 kilometres to the shelter. If they don\u2019t pay, they kidnap, beat them, ask for sexual favours. In the worst case, they\u2019ll be forced to work for the gangs or be killed.\u201dThe shelter had been forced to close in November after the same criminal gangs \u2013 known as the Zetas and Maras \u2013 threatened the staff.At its peak, the San Jos\u00e9 shelter had offered beds, food and medical supplies to 150-200 people per day, one of dozens of such shelters in Mexico, mainly run by the church and other civil society groups. Now, it has just reopened as a small cafeteria to provide refreshments for migrants.The untold story of Mexico\u2019s \u201cDrug War\u201d \u2013 the bloody rivalry between narco-traffickers \u2013 is that the violence affects thousands of people completely unconnected with the drugs trade. Amnesty International recently estimated that as many as 70,000 undocumented migrants went missing in Mexico between 2006 and 2012. Predominantly Central and South Americans using Mexico as a stepping stone to the US, many are the victims of extortion, kidnapping, rape and murder on their journey.\u201cThere\u2019s always been migration from Central America through Mexico,\u201d Mr Andrade explains, \u201cbut more so now because of the situations in those countries \u2013 the poverty and violence.\u201d\u00a0The journey on The Beast, which travels daily from Chiapas on the southern border with Guatemala to the outskirts of Mexico City, is just as dangerous as the 20km walk that awaits the migrants on their arrival.The train routinely carries hundreds of human beings hoping to avoid immigration checkpoints or encounters with corrupt local police. But gangs have hijacked the route, charging $100 (\u00a364) or more for permission to mount the train.Threats, attacks and extortion continue en route. The attacks are a vital component of Mexico\u2019s organised crime underworld, and constitute a criminal industry estimated to be worth tens of millions of dollars per year.According to a report by Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission (CNDH), in extortion cases the sums of money demanded ranged from $1,000 to $5,000. More than 90 of the 9,758 victims interviewed by the CNDH, between September 2008 and February 2009, said public officials, particularly the police, were involved in their kidnapping.\u00a0Rudy, a 28-year old staying at the Casa Tochan migrant shelter in Mexico City, was a federal police officer in Honduras until threats\u00a0 from gangs forced him to leave the country. \u201cWork for the police and you\u2019re practically working for the gangs,\u201d he says.His Facebook page is filled with memories from back home \u2013 pictures of relatives, former girlfriends, favourite dishes, as well as photos of him in his officer\u2019s uniform. Like many migrants, Rudy rode The Beast on a draining journey that often leaves many maimed or dead. Rudy boasts that he made it unharmed. \u201cMy military training helped me a lot,\u201d he says.\u00a0Rudy denies he has plans to go to the US \u2013 the destination of choice for many migrants. His goal, he says, is to go to Monterrey, a prosperous city in northern Mexico, and find work. One thing he\u2019s sure about is that he won\u2019t return to Honduras: \u201cI\u2019d love to see my father again one day, but it\u2019s just not safe for me to go back and live there.\u201d\u00a0By the very nature of undocumented migration, the number of people who cross Mexico can only ever be an estimate. But the National Migration Institute (INM) reports that up to 200,000 people cross the country every year. In 2010, nearly half of those were believed to come from Honduras, currently the most violent country in the world outside of a war zone. The other half hail from El Salvador, Guatemala, Cuba, Nicaragua and Colombia, as well as Asia, Africa and the Middle East.\u00a0The CNDH reports that in 2010, 11,333 of these migrants were victims of kidnapping, although the figure is likely to be higher due to the rarity with which such attacks are reported. Migrants say they fear they will be perceived as the criminals if they report such crimes.In 2011, the Santa Faustina Kowalska shelter in the state of Veracruz reported that some 80 per cent of the female migrants it hosts had been raped during their journey. Many acquire contraceptive injections ahead of the trip, knowing sexual assault is part of the price they will pay.\u00a0The CNDH\u2019s six-month investigation counted as many as 9,758 abductions of migrants \u2013 equivalent to 1,600 per month. Most of these kidnappings involved extortion via the migrants\u2019 relatives in the US.\u00a0 One of the key pieces of advice that shelters like San Jos\u00e9 offer migrants is not to tell anyone that they have family or friends waiting for them up north.Following the brutal massacre of 72 migrants, found in a clandestine grave in Tamaulipas in August 2010, Mexican lawmakers unanimously passed the Ley de Migracion, or Migration Law. The law purportedly offers humanitarian visas to migrants so that they may legally enter Mexico without the need to hide from the authorities, and theoretically grants them the same rights and social services, such as healthcare, as Mexican citizens.Although they support the reform, human rights groups have been critical of its implementation, pointing out that the requirements for the humanitarian visa are almost impossible to meet and that endemic corruption in Mexico means that police, military and local officials \u2013 often accused of protecting organised crime \u2013 rarely enforce laws intended to protect the vulnerable.Marta Sanchez, of the Mesoamerican Migrants\u2019 Movement, supports the new law in principle but is doubtful of its implementation: \u201cThe authorities view migration as a national security issue rather than an economic, human rights or human security issue. While there are advances in rhetoric, the situation for migrants is actually getting worse... Both the Mexican and the US governments criminalise migrants, and that\u2019s a climate in which organised crime can thrive.\u201d","A famous American marksman and author was shot dead yesterday on a Texas rifle range.Chris Kyle, the former Navy SEAL who claimed to have been the most prolific sniper in American history, had a bounty put on his head by insurgents in Iraq, who dubbed him \"The Devil of Ramadi.\"He was at Rough Creek Lodge's shooting range near Forth Worth, Texas, with another man.Both were fatally shot.Witnesses said a gunman opened fire on the men at around 3:30 yesterday afternoon before fleeing in a pick-up truck belonging to one of the victims, according to a local newspaper.The newspaper said a 25-year-old man was later taken into custody nearby and that charges were expected. The motive for the shooting is unclear.Kyle, 38, wrote the best-selling book, \"American Sniper: The Autobiography of the Most Lethal Sniper in US Military History,\" about the 150-plus insurgents he killed between 1999 and 2009.He was being sued for defamation by Jesse Ventura, former Governor of Minnesota, over the book's claim that Kyle punched Ventura in a 2006 bar fight over unpatriotic remarks.Ventura said the punch never happened.Kyle had asked that Ventura's claims of invasion of privacy and \"unjust enrichment\" be dismissed, saying there was no legal basis for them. But a federal judge said the lawsuit should proceed.The suit was set to begin in August.The married father of two, from Odessa, Texas, was president of Craft International, providing sniper and security training for the US military.He saw four tours of Iraq, during which he was shot twice. He received three Silver Stars and five Bronze Stars with Valor."]},{"x":0.368863683547867,"y":0.722966779728099,"no_docs":26,"words":[{"prob":1.34171005489833e-05,"word":"bank"},{"prob":1.34171005489833e-05,"word":"tax"},{"prob":0.000975079147217976,"word":"uk"},{"prob":0.000114416530906334,"word":"companies"},{"prob":1.34171005489833e-05,"word":"banks"},{"prob":0.000399629752818887,"word":"mr"},{"prob":8.12256655025163e-05,"word":"business"}],"docs":["Plans to enrol nine million more workers in company pension schemes are set to be investigated by regulators.The Office of Fair Trading is to look at whether defined contribution pension schemes \u2013 a cheaper alternative to final salary ones \u2013 deliver \"the best value for money for savers\".About four million people in the UK currently save in defined contribution schemes, a figure that is expected to more than double by 2018 due to automatic enrolment legislation. This forces employers to pay into a workplace pension scheme for their staff unless the worker opts out.","Clean up or clear off. That was the message sent to more than 140,000 employees at Barclays, from the lowliest tellers in its branches to the millionaire traders whose primary concern right now is when they might finally get their hands on the restricted stock they've been forced to accept in lieu of their beloved cash bonuses.In a letter which arrived in all of their inboxes this morning, the new chief executive Antony Jenkins had a stark message for those who won't buy into his TRANSFORM (sic) programme with its five core values of \"respect, integrity, service, excellence and stewardship\".\"There might be some who don't feel they can fully buy into an approach which so squarely links performance to the upholding of our values. My message to those people is simply: Barclays is not the place for you. The rules have changed. You won't feel comfortable at Barclays and, to be frank, we won't feel comfortable with you as colleagues,\" he said.The warning was laid down in the wake of the Libor interest-rate fixing scandal that cost Barclays \u00a3290m in fines, as well as its chief executive Bob Diamond and chairman Marcus Agius. Not to mention the reputational damage inflicted by traders' emails promising colleagues bottles of Bollinger for attempting to cook the books.The bank also last year raised the amount set aside for mis-selling payment protetction insurance to \u00a32bn. And it continues to fight a proposed \u00a3291m fine for alleged manipulation of the California energy-trading market.Over the coming weeks more than a thousand people will be trained to preach Barclays' new message to staff. Even top investment bankers might have to attend re-education sessions.So is this a sudden return to the venerable institution's Quaker roots?Some of those who have been close to the bank for some time look at the move with a jaundiced eye. They say that the five core values are remarkably similar to the six \"Barclays Behaviours\" held up in 2002 as ideals for the bank's staff under the man Mr Diamond replaced as chief executive, John Varley.They argue that this programme fell away under Mr Diamond and the managers he brought in. Those managers include one Antony Jenkins.Said one former Barclays employee: \"This will only work if the people at the top of the bank live it and if the reward structures are based on living up to it. I'm sure the chairman Sir David Walker does, but the others have to as well.'Views in the City about that were rather mixed.One banker said: \"I think they genuinely are determined to go way beyond putting in a new layer of controls. They want to engineer a new culture. But that is very, very difficult.\"Far from living up to a Quaker, or even a 2002, ideal, others noted that there were commercial considerations at play in Mr Jenkins' letter.David Buik, the City commentator, said: \"He has to do this for three reasons. Firsly, when he took over he said he would. Secondly, he's employed the most expensive compliance officer in the City in Sir Hector Sants [the former head of the Financial Services Authority]. Thirdly, he wants to steal a march on the other banks. While they are fighting fires of their own, Barclays wants to be seen to be stepping up.\"As for Barclays' critics outside of the City, David Hillman, a spokesman for the Robin Hood Tax Campaign, said: \"This is a hopeful sign that Barclays may finally be waking up to the misery they inflicted by mis-selling products and manipulating interest rates. But it is by their actions not their words that they'll be judged \u2013 they need to start serving the interests of wider society, not just feathering their own nest.\"Warm sentiments won't soften the suffering inflicted by the economic crisis \u2013 if banks are serious about breaking with the past they must also pay for the damage they've caused.\"Whether you believe Mr Jenkins is sincere \u2013 and to be fair plenty do \u2013 or you take a more cynical view, he's certainly got people talking. All except for the analysts who cover Barclays stock.They barely shrugged their shoulders. They've seen this sort of thing before. Some are even old enough to remember Mr Varley and his Barclays Behaviours back in 2002. The main event for them will be Mr Jenkins' strategy presentation next month.The stock market too hardly noticed. Barclays shares finished the day virtually unchanged at 296p.A number of investors are pressing for a break up the bank. They want the investment arm spun off.That would not be a terribly palatable route for any chief executive to take, however. For years now it has generated the lion's shares of Barclays' profits. Without it, the bank would still be an important player, but only in banking's second division.When UBS decided it needed to restore its reputation after an even bigger fine \u2013 \u00a3900m \u2013 for Libor fixing, it sacked thousands of investment bankers as part of a wholesale retreat from large parts of the business. That's highly unlikely to happen at Barclays, whatever its new values are.It is true Barclays is likely to call time on some of its more controversial businesses, its tax-planning arm, and the trading of certain \"soft\" commodities, such as grain. But the smart money is on Barclays Investment Bank remaining integral to Barclays Bank."," Quiz time: which head of a leading British bank said this? \"By being successful, banks can and should make significant contributions to society by facilitating the taking of appropriate risk by those they serve; by lending and investing; by paying dividends and taxes; by creating employment; and by contributing to the communities in which they operate. But if trust is to be re-established, then banks have to do these things in a way that serves society.\"OutlookThe noble sentiments aren't those of Antony Jenkins, the Barclays chief executive who today said there was \"no choice between integrity and profit in this business\". They're from Barclays' former chairman Marcus Agius, a victim of the Libor scandal, almost three years ago. Here we are again. Mr Jenkins assures us that the new drive for \"integrity\" isn't merely window-dressing or a PR stunt, even going as far as appointing 1,000 morality commissars to bring virtue's flame to the rest of the bank's 75,000 staff.The wide boys on the trading floor swilling Bollinger with their mates while they celebrate rigging the Libor rate aren't welcome any more, Mr Jenkins says. \"To be frank, we won't feel comfortable with you,\" he adds.All well and good. But I'm sick of hearing mea culpas from the banking industry that are backed up with nothing more than warm words. It's like God's own banker, former HSBC boss Stephen Green, saying the industry \"owes the real world an apology\" a few years back while the company was laundering money for the Mexican drug cartels.Mr Jenkins had better be ready to back up his words with action when he unveils his new strategy. And that means dismantling the aggressive and controversial tax planning business which dragged the bank through the reputational mire last year as it repaid \u00a3500m to the Treasury. Also making good on hints that Barclays will back away from agricultural trading and hence profiting from rising global food prices. If he's serious about \"having the courage always to do the right thing\", he might also want to think about the markets the bank is operating in, such as Zimbabwe. If he falls short, Barclays' moral revolution will be torpedoed before it's even begun.","Santander is considering a \u00a32bn acquisition of Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks as part of plans to ramp up its UK presence.The UK division of the Spanish banking giant is understood to have been plotting a move on the two banks, which are both owned by National Bank of Australia, since it failed to buy 316 branches from Royal Bank of Scotland in October.The Australian bank is reported to be under pressure from shareholders to offload the loss-making banks, although Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks have a healthy share of the market for small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) and corporate lending.Santander declined to comment on the speculation yesterday. In an interview published over the weekend, Santander UK's chief executive Ana Botin said: \"Right now, our thinking is that organic growth is what we are aiming for.\"We are currently working on plans to grow our retail business, our SME business, we are building a team for large corporates in the UK which we didn't have before.\"","Retailers and their advisers have called for urgent action to deal with a huge backlog of business rate appeals, warning that delays in refunding struggling shops could put them out of business.Appeals to HM Revenue &amp; Customs' Valuation Office stand at almost 250,000, according to latest figures, and campaigners say a growing number of retailers are being forced to the wall before they find out whether they have been overcharged.The British Retail Consortium told The Independent that delays were causing some shops serious cash-flow problems at a time when the consumer squeeze and competition from online giants such as Amazon are leaving them on a knife edge.A BRC spokesman said: \"We are aware of significant backlogs since the revaluation in 2008 and the new rates which came in in 2010. We get a lot of feedback from retailers who tell us they are having problems claiming money back. This is going to causing a big cash-flow problem, and it is often only the larger firms which have the resources to try appealing.\"The BRC estimates that increases to business rates \u2013 property taxes that are linked to the Retail Prices Index measure of inflation \u2013 have cost retailers \u00a3500m over two years. The 2013 increase is set to cost them an extra \u00a3175m.Companies running bricks-and-mortar shops say it is an impediment to them as they compete against internet retailers, which aren't significantly hit by the tax.CVS, an agency that assists firms with appeals, said the backlog was now \"weakening the financial health of a large number businesses\". It called for \"urgent action to clear the backlog and give firms a fighting chance\".","The senior policeman at the centre of the News of the World phone hacking investigation is now working on corporate fraud cases for a security company that advised on the Royal Wedding. John Yates, dubbed \"Yates of the Yard\", who led Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism unit, was involved in a string of high-profile probes including the cash-for-honours scandal and Jeffrey Archer perjury case.The Sunday Times: Convenient truth: Al Gore in $30m Apple windfallAl Gore, the former US vice-president, has added nearly $30m (\u00a319m) to his burgeoning wealth, following a lucrative share deal with Apple, where he has spent 10 years on the board. Last week, the global warming campaigner quietly triggered a share package he was given by Apple founder Steve Jobs. In 2003, Mr Gore was given the right to buy 59,000 shares at $7.475. They now trade at $500.The Mail on Sunday: Coalition to reap huge windfall from 4G radio depositsThe Government's auction of the 4G radio spectrum will earn it a multi-million-pound windfall from interest on the huge obligatory deposits of bidders. The seven bidders must deposit 50 per cent of their maximum first bid with Ofcom to qualify to remain in the bidding process. Bidders have each had to deposit at least the equivalent of the reserve price for the auction \u2013 \u00a31.3bn \u2013 with the regulator.Rate swap scandal: Mis-selling bill to top \u00a31.5bn for banksThe cost of compensating businesses for the mis-selling of complex derivative products is to double to more than \u00a31.5bn across the UK's major banks. At least one of the \"Big Four\" banks \u2013 HSBC, Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds and Barclays \u2013 is poised to increase its provision for the sale of interest rate swaps to small and medium-sized firms by more than twofold.","Barclays was hit by further damaging revelations about the culture that was allowed to flourish in certain parts of the bank yesterday after it emerged that a senior executive had suppressed a damaging report into Barclays Wealth in America.The report, compiled by consultancy firm Genesis Ventures, was said by a Sunday newspaper to have sharply criticised a \"revenue at all costs\" strategy and a \"culture that is high-risk and actively hostile to compliance\".Management was said to have \"ruled with an iron fist\", acting to remove \"any intervention from those who speak up in opposition\". Genesis Ventures' report was initially only supplied to Andrew Tinney, chief operating officer of the private investment division, and he suppressed it. His departure was announced to staff in an email a week ago, and it is understood he did not receive a pay-off.The revelations come days after new chief executive Antony Jenkins wrote to all 140,000 staff members, telling them that if they didn't buy into his clean-up plan, they would be kicked out. He is due to unveil a new strategy in February, which will see the bank pulling out of more controversial businesses such as tax planning. Staff at Canary Wharf are said to be nervously awaiting a fresh round of lay-offs.The revelations follow The Independent's exclusive interview with a whistleblower last July in which he talked of a culture of fear at the investment banking division. The Independent has since talked to several other former members of staff at the division who told similar stories.One said yesterday: \"This backs up what I have been saying. The attitude and ethics of the big guys up top more than filtered to the bottom.\"Any rule breaches brought to light by such a report would be seized on by regulators who fined the bank \u00a3290m after its traders were found to have attempted to manipulate Libor interest rates last year.Last night, however, people close to the bank stressed Mr Tinney's departure was a reflection of the reforms being pushed through by Mr Jenkins, and the report showed that he was serious. A Barclays spokesman said Mr Jenkins had \"acknowledged clearly last week\" that transformation of the bank's culture was \"imperative\".\"Independent reports, like the one commissioned in early 2012 for Barclays Wealth in America, are intended to identify areas where change is required and to recommend remedial steps. These types of exercise never result in comfortable reading, but we have been, and will, remain absolutely committed to taking the necessary steps to address the issues raised,\" he said.","Is the taxman getting tough on small businesses struggling to pay their bills? HM Revenue &amp; Customs' own figures suggest this may well be the case.HMRC's data, crunched by Wilkins Kennedy, the accountant, reveals that in the 2011-12 tax year, it presented 57 per cent more petitions to wind up companies with unpaid tax bills than in the previous 12 months. It sought to liquidate just over 5,300 companies last year, up from about 3,400 in 2010-11.The get-tough approach is evident elsewhere in the data too. Syscap, the independent finance provider, points out that HMRC's use of 'distraint' doubled during the 2011-12 tax year.Distraint, in which HMRC seizes goods from companies with unpaid taxes \u2013 it is then entitled to sell them if the bill is not paid within five days \u2013 is an aggressive tactic that has most often been used against businesses with unpaid payroll taxes such as income tax and National Insurance. It appears to have been used more widely last year, with 10,577 businesses hit, up from 5,520 in the 2010-11 financial year.HMRC points out that it tries to be sympathetic to businesses struggling to pay their tax bills. In particular, the Time to Pay scheme, which was ramped up during the recession and continues to this day, offers firms the chance to spread tax payments over a much longer period than usual.However, there has been some grumbling in recent months from accountants convinced the taxman is now far more likely to reject applications from businesses for extra time. This may suggest the more hardline approach implied by the data available for the period up to April last year, when the 2011-12 tax year came to an end, has continued since then.We don't know exactly how many businesses are now on the Time to Pay scheme because HMRC stopped publishing the statistics in 2011 (in fairness, only after a three-month consultation period during which no one complained about the proposal). However, in the final quarter before the statistics were dropped, rejections of Time to Pay applications rose by a third, which suggests that even then HMRC may have been beginning to run out of patience.Should we be concerned about a tougher HMRC? Well, firms with cashflow constraints and squeezed finances certainly should be \u2013 many companies have gone out of business because of their inability to pay tax bills and an attack from HMRC is a very real threat. Taxpayers, however, may see this issue a different way (unless they happen to be employed by an SME in danger of going under). The number of hugely indebted companies that have no viable future but are staying alive thanks to low interest rates and forbearance from their banks \u2013 the zombie businesses \u2013 is so large that it may be holding back the economic recovery.Might it not be better for the taxman to take what it can get now, rather than allowing the zombies to soldier on, taking business from more viable rivals, including start-ups? The sudden spike in high-profile retail collapses suggests the banks may be moving towards this position too, cutting their losses sooner rather than later.HMRC's responsibility is to the Treasury, whose coffers are as empty as ever. There is an argument for looking sympathetically on businesses caught out in the short term, if they have the opportunity to be generous contributors to those coffers once they have recovered. HMRC appears to be taking the view, however, that an increasing number of businesses will never fulfil that potential.Market's demise a plus for rivalsThe demise of the Plus Markets business last year continues to be a boon to rival exchanges, which have been steadily picking up business over the past 12 months. Though the exchange run by Plus was sold to Icap, where many of its companies continue to trade on the Icap Securities and Derivatives Exchange (ISDX), rivals are catching up with it.Those rivals are led by GXG Group, which bills itself as a pan-European stock exchange for small and medium-sized enterprises. It now lists 73 companies across three market platforms, and saw almost \u00a3200m of share trading last year \u2013 17 businesses listed on GXG in January alone.ISDX lists in the region of 135 companies, including some of the best-known inhabitants of Plus, such as Arsenal Football Club and the Shepherd Neame brewing business, which have stayed with the market through its change of ownership and rebranding.Alkane set for fracking liftAlkane Energy, the Alternative Investment Market-listed power group best-known for its interests in Wales, the Midlands and the North of England, could be one beneficiary of the Government's announcement in December that it will allow fracking. The controversial technique may enable resources companies to get at the UK's substantial shale gas reserves.Alkane revealed on Friday that it has begun evaluating its shale gas assets, which could potentially give the group a substantial boost. Joe Stokeld, a mining analyst at Alkane's house broker VSA Capital, which maintains a buy recommendation on the stock, says the company's relatively substantial shale gas opportunities come on top of already solid output growth.\"Alkane seems poised to benefit from any positive developments that take place in the UK shale gas sector, if it should choose to enter it,\" Mr Stokeld said.Alkane shares closed at 27.75p on Friday.Small Business Woman of the Week: Brynne Herbert, founder, MOVE GuidesI started out as an investment banker and worked across Asia. Then I came to the UK to do an MBA at London Business School. Every time I moved, it was a huge pain logistically and it felt like opportunities that should have been exciting became daunting. When I arrived in London, I ended up in a miserable flat with no power, no bank account and no mobile.That's where the idea for MOVE Guides came from. It started as a guide book I put together while I was doing my MBA but evolved into something more holistic. We offer a business-to-business, cloud-based portal for employee relocation and a consumer website aimed at individuals.Some relocation services focus on high-value families but the feedback is variable and no one serves Generation Y people, who want to be able to do all this online. We take much of the customer service responsibility and serve as a single point of contact.We raised \u00a3400,000 of business angel funding last year from people like Sherry Coutu and Kevin Eyres [the well-known technology investor and the LinkedIn executive respectively] and within six months of that we were beginning to see revenues increase. We'll probably have another funding round this year so we can scale up the business.","Final salary pension schemes closed their doors at a record rate last year as the Coalition's money printing programme hit their finances.Figures from the National Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) show that just 13 per cent of Britain's 6,000 final salary schemes remain open to new workers \u2013 a drop of one third from 19 per cent in 2011.These generous defined benefit schemes were also closed to existing members at a rapid rate last year, with the number being shut climbing to 31 per cent last year, compared to 23 per cent in 2011.Over the past few years major companies such as Shell, Unilever and Alliance Boots have closed their schemes and the trend is accelerating. The Royal Opera House is among those organisations which recently began a consultation to decide on whether to close its final salary scheme.The Bank of England's quantitative easing (QE) programme has undermined these gold-plated retirement plans, which were already under pressure from red tape, poor investment returns and people living longer.Joanne Segars, NAPF chief executive, said: \"The pressures on final salary pensions have proven too great for many businesses. The growing liabilities fuelled by QE will have been a factor behind the record hike in closures.\"Those starting a new job in the private sector have next to no chance of getting a final salary pension. What was once the norm is now a very rare offer. And those who are currently saving into one may find it gets closed.\"The state of private-sector pensions is in stark contrast to the public sector, which continues to operate a lot of final salary schemes, leading some critics to talk of a \"pensions apartheid\".QE hurts all final salary schemes because the Bank of England uses the money to buy debt, which pushes up the price of government gilts. This creates lower returns, or yields, on pension funds' investments. It also affects the way pension liabilities are calculated, using a formula known as the discount rate. According to NAPF, the costs of running final salary schemes \u2013 including fees to fund managers \u2013 increased from \u00a3170 per member to \u00a3186 in 2012.On a brighter note, total contributions from both employers and employees into cheaper defined contribution (DC) pensions rose to an average of 12.5 per cent of salary in 2012, above the 8 per cent minimum that auto-enrolment requires. This new law sees workers automatically placed into company pension schemes.Ms Segars said: \"We are in the midst of a pension regime change. Auto-enrolment will bring millions of workers into a new breed of pension that will come to dominate in the private sector. It is encouraging that savings into these pensions have reached a new high, despite the tough economic conditions.\"Some industry-watchers remain concerned about DC schemes because the risk lies with the employee, not the employer, and returns can depend on the vagaries of the stock market. The Office of Fair Trading is investigating claims of high charges and low growth.","How do small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) deal with persistent late payers that damage their cashflow and jeopardise their very survival? A new piece of research from Barclays Bank suggests many SMEs are getting tough with late payers \u2013 if that's the case, it's not before time.There is no doubt that late payments continue to dog SMEs \u2013 85 per cent of small businesses say it has been a major issue over the past two years, while nearly half say their most consistently difficult creditors are paying late three times a year or more. Last September, the payments organisation, Bacs, estimated that SMEs were owed \u00a336bn in late payments and there's no reason to think the situation has improved since then.We know how difficult late payments can be for SMEs. Barclays' own data suggests that one-in-five businesses going bust cite bad debt as a significant factor in their demise. Among those that survive, SME owners are often forced to dip into their own funds or borrow against their personal assets, while waiting for payment.There are some steps SMEs can take to protect themselves \u2013 conducting credit checks on customers, for example, chasing bad debts more efficiently and ruthlessly, or demanding payment upfront. But the problem persists and has got steadily worse during this economic downturn.We may be about to see a new stage in the battle, however. Barclays says SMEs are now simply refusing to do business with their most persistent late payers. One in five companies say that over the past year they have declined to do business with customers who have paid late in the past.This is the nuclear option, of course, and for some businesses it may feel like cutting off your nose to spite your face. But in the end, faced with a customer prepared to inflict financial damage on the business, often repeatedly, by not paying their bills on time, what other choices do SMEs have?Also, the more SMEs take this hardline approach, the more effective it is likely to be \u2013 especially if they act in concert. A customer that knows its business won't be accepted anywhere should it fail to pay on time is much more likely to be a timely payer.It's a small world out there. In many industries, SMEs will know their competitors and their customers very well. By working with one another to target those customers playing everyone for a fool, they stand a better chance of getting paid. The word \"blacklist\" has a pejorative feel, but there's nothing wrong with a blacklist of customers who won't settle their bills.It may be that SMEs feel most comfortable taking this approach with smaller customers \u2013 bigger businesses, though they're often among the worst offenders, are less likely to feel threatened by a boycott from one sector or area of the country.Organise the campaign effectively, however, with everyone standing firm and it should be possible to take on even the largest organisations.SMEs suffer a double whammy in a culture of late payments. Not only are they more likely to be on the end of poor treatment \u2013 because bullying the small guy is the easy option \u2013 but they're also less likely to have the cash reserves needed to cope. And if customers pay your business late, it becomes harder to settle your own bills on time.By banding together, however, SMEs are in a position to flex their muscles much more aggressively.They should not hesitate to do so: the late payments cycle is damaging everybody's business \u2013 as well as the wider economy.It's time to make a stand.Trading platform signs up Scilly transport firmAsset Match, the trading platform for small unlisted companies launched last year, is hoping 2013 will be the year that it captures investors' imagination. It has made a good start, announcing that the Isles of Scilly Steamship Company is joining the platform \u2013 the business provides the only links, by plane and ship, between the UK mainland and the islands (right).Asset Match bought the private exchange Sharemark last autumn, with its companies transferring to the platform following the acquisition. It now lists around 20 businesses and operates through regular auctions of shares, matching buyers and sellers.The platform has appointed the former Bank of England executive Iain Saville as a non-executive director and is in the process of finalising the line-up of a new advisory board, expected to include Giles Vardy, former chairman of the Plus Markets junior stock exchange.Small Business-Man of the Week: John Pallagi, founder, FarmisonWe launched Farmison.com in October 2011 \u2013 I had worked for many years as a restaurateur, and I'd got to know some fabulous British artisan producers; I couldn't understand why they weren't getting the opportunity to wave the flag nationally, so we began working on a way to give consumers a much wider choice.\"Farmison works with more than 70 farmers, so that consumers and restaurant owners can order fantastic, high-quality and seasonal produce. Once you've ordered online, your food is delivered within 48 hours.\"We're all about promoting the producers whose foods are not available in the supermarkets, with a particular specialism in greengroceries, cheese and butchery.\"We could not have chosen a more difficult economic time to launch, but I honestly believe that while there are certain luxuries people will give up when money is tighter, for our target market at least, high-quality food is not something on which they want to compromise.\"We don't know how business might have been had the economy been better, but we're really pleased with our progress. We're doing double the amount of repeat business we were expecting.","Goldman Sachs' chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, has admitted that media pressure forced the Wall Street bank to drop its plan to save its British employees millions of pounds in bonuses through tax avoidance. \"We were very, very influenced by the press, and that's certainly not embarrassing. We have to take account of it,\" said Mr Blankfein at the World Economic Forum in Davos.The Sunday Times: Bumi's board hits back at investor Nat RothschildNat Rothschild's attempt to stage a coup at the London-listed Indonesian coal empire he created will be hit by a fresh setback this week. Rothschild has tabled a proposal to sack 12 of the 14 directors at Bumi. But the chief executive, Nick von Schirnding, is expected to unveil a boardroom shake-up he hopes will convince investors that Mr Rothschild's coup is unnecessary.The Mail on Sunday: MPs to quiz tax accountants from 'Big Four' firmsTax experts at KPMG, Deloitte, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst &amp; Young are set to be grilled this week by MPs on the Public Accounts Committee, chaired by Labour's Margaret Hodge, about tax avoidance schemes. It comes in the aftermath of criticism of firms such as Amazon and Google and following David Cameron's demand for companies to pay more corporation tax.The Sunday Telegraph: New Bank of England Governor Carney to put growth top of listThe incoming Governor has signalled that he will put growth at the heart of his approach to the job and is willing to see higher inflation for longer to support the economy. Mark Carney said that although price stability was central, there were \"tolerances\" concerning the speed with which inflation would be brought down if the economy was struggling. Economies need to reach \"escape velocity\", he said.","David Cameron has been accused of double standards after retaining the head of Google as an adviser even though the company has allegedly taken advantage of the corporate tax avoidance he has condemned.The Prime Minister has been urged to drop Eric Schmidt, Google\u2019s executive chairman, from his Business Advisory Panel to send a message that the Government is serious about cracking down on tax avoidance by multinationals like Google, Starbucks and Amazon. In 2011, Google paid \u00a36m corporation tax on \u00a32.5bn of revenues\u00a0 in the UK.Mr Cameron has promised to use Britain\u2019s year chairing the G8 leading economies to ensure more transparency over taxes\u00a0 paid by big companies, who are under growing pressure to disclose how much they pay on a country-by-country basis.Lord Oakeshott, the Liberal Democrats\u2019 former Treasury spokesman, told Mr Cameron in a letter: \u201cYour campaign as chairman of the G8 against tax dodging by big companies will be holed below the waterline if you keep Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, on your Business Advisory Panel.\u201cYou attack Starbucks, who have at least accepted they must pay more tax in this country. But you are laying yourself wide open to a charge of selective indignation on tax dodging, as in the case of [the comedian] Jimmy Carr. Mr Schmidt sees no shame in Google paying almost no tax in Britain and using complex offshore arrangements to avoid massive amounts of tax.Google are world class tax-dodgers, with Starbucks merely minor league players.\u201dDowning Street declined to comment about Google\u2019s position. Aides have insisted that Mr Cameron had never singled out individual firms.A Google spokesman said last night: \u201cWe comply with all the tax rules in the UK. We make a substantial contribution to the UK economy through local, payroll and corporate taxes. We also employ over 2,000 people, help hundreds of thousands of businesses to grow online and invest millions supporting new tech businesses in East London.\u201d"," If you were wondering why Royal Bank of Scotland's settlement with regulators over its role in the Libor fixing scandal was taking so long to finalise, a little light has been shed on the matter.OutlookThe US Department of Justice now apparently wants the company, or at least one of its subsidiaries out in Asia where misdeeds took place, to plead guilty to some sort of criminal charge.The DoJ has been facing some rather sharp criticism for letting banks like UBS and HSBC get off too lightly when it comes to this sort of thing. If they were prosecuted properly they might be banned.But just as these banks were too big to fail, they are too big to ban. Shutting megabanks that do bad things out of the US could prove catastrophic for the world's financial system. Again the folly of allowing these institutions to grow to their great size and power is demonstrated.Hence the idea forcing Royal Bank of Scotland to assume the position with a guilty plea.Spanking a relatively small Asian subsidiary of the bank (as happened with UBS) will provide the Department of Justice with a handy trophy and some ammo with which to fight its critics. Look, see, we are doing our jobs. When we answer the phone by barking out \"justice\" we really mean it. Honest.You can understand why RBS might be very reluctant to play ball. While the figures keep changing (\u00a3500m is the current best guess) for its fine, the scale of wrongdoing will probably make RBS look more like Barclays than UBS, where attempts to fix Libor were taking place among a much larger group of traders.But Barclays settled early, helped the DoJ, and thus managed to escape having to plead guilty to anything. So it actually got off relatively lightly \u2013 and now it seems that Barclays did get an advantage from going first \u2013 when compared to RBS.The problem for RBS is this: If it does plead guilty \u2013 and the DoJ usually gets its way \u2013 it could leave the bank in deep water when it comes to an avalanche of civil litigation, the cost of which could be frighteningly large.Large enough to threaten RBS's financial stability? Probably not. But here's the thing. No one knows for sure. The British Government, which oversees taxpayers' controlling stake in this bank, has good reason to be nervous.","The US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is to go after Americans suspected of hiding their income in the now-defunct Swiss bank Wegelin after a judge authorised the taxman to seek records from UBS.The US authorities allege that UBS was used by Wegelin \u2013 the oldest of Switzerland's private banks \u2013 to handle for funds for American clients.Wegelin shut down earlier this month after pleading guilty in the US to accusations of helping Americans dodge taxes.Now, Manhattan Judge William Pauley has granted an IRS request to seek US records related to a UBS account used by Wegelin when dealing with funds for US clients.","A former tax chief accused of overseeing sweetheart deals that let big companies off millions of pounds in tax has found a new role \u2013 protecting HSBC from dealing with tax cheats.David Hartnett, the former chief executive of HM Revenue &amp; Customs, is to join a committee of the great and the good set up to advise the bank on how to avoid getting entangled with tax evaders, terrorists and drug dealers.It follows the $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn) fine the bank was forced to pay to United States watchdogs for breaching rules on money laundering that allowed the bank to be used as a conduit for a river of money from drug cartels.But the move has outraged tax campaigners. Mr Hartnett was publicly humiliated by Margaret Hodge, chairman of the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee, over a deal which let Goldman Sachs off \u00a310m in tax.The National Audit Office later said that the deal, and those with other companies, were reasonable, but criticised HMRC for a failure to seek proper legal advice, involve specialists or even take notes during negotiations with big companies.Mr Hartnett, who retired last summer, will be required to work for between 35 and 40 days a year. His pay is not being disclosed, but such advisory roles typically carry lucrative fees, and could easily net a six-figure sum.The Goldman Sachs deal is being challenged in the courts by UK Uncut Legal Action, the tax pressure group. a spokesman for UK Uncut said: \"It is not a great surprise that this man has found a job with big business after he had been friends for so many years with big business.\"The spokesman said this was evidenced by \"the secret deals that are now coming to light with the UK government letting some of the largest companies off from paying millions of pounds in tax.\"It is an enormous irony that this man, who has landed government in court as a result of a sweetheart deal on tax, is now advising one of UK's biggest banks on how to steer clear of trouble.\"Sources close to HSBC said Mr Hartnett had been chosen as a result of his knowledge about tax.","After buying your home, an annuity is probably your biggest financial purchase, but few of us take more than a few minutes to sign on the dotted line when it comes to retirement.This isn't because we don't care \u2013 terrible annuity rates are a recurring concern in my weekly mailbag from readers \u2013 it's because the insurance industry has for decades been hoodwinking savers into not shopping around and merely signing up to the annuity offered by their insurance company, which is almost always a poor deal. This in particularly affects the ill and those who have a shortened life expectancy, many of whom are unaware that by shopping around and buying an enhanced annuity they could enjoy a far higher income than at present.The FSA's investigation is a clear shot across the bows of the insurance industry, telling it the old practices of keeping secret the annuity rates they offer and using sophisticated marketing techniques to get six out of ten pension savers to sign up automatically to often poor rates have to come to an end.The insurance industry says that it is putting things right, and points to a new code of conduct that is due to come into force in a few weeks' time. But the public, politicians and, it seems, the FSA are deeply unconvinced.","The Financial Services Authority will announce an investigation today into the multibillion-pound pensions annuity market amid fears that many people are losing out on thousands of pounds of income a year when they retire.The regulator will say it has concerns that consumers are not shopping around between pension providers for an annuity, where a pension fund is converted into an income for life.It will look at whether insurers are doing enough to encourage pension savers to exercise what is called the open market option at retirement, the right to take their savings and shop around for the best annuity.At present six out of ten savers choose to accept the annuity offered by their pension provider. The difference between the best and default annuity rates could mean a \u00a3100,000 retirement pot buys an annual pension of \u00a35,700 rather than \u00a34,700.The FSA review of the market will take up to 12 months and will look at whether annuities are fairly priced and marketed to the public. Following the review, the FSA may take the step of naming and shaming firms which are offering poor deals to savers or those that are seen as putting barriers in the way of people looking to exercise the open market option.\"This is a timely review of the annuity market as we need more consumers shopping around for the best possible deal. Oxford Economics estimates that up to \u00a37bn could be lost by pensioners not shopping around,\" Stephen Lowe, the director of the leading annuity provider Just Retirement, said.The insurance industry is already under heavy political pressure to improve its handling of annuity customers. The Pensions minister, Steve Webb, is believed to have given the insurance industry an ultimatum to reform itself and how it sells annuities or face legislation.One industry insider said the FSA investigation marks a \"last-chance saloon\" for insurers, while Tom Mcphail, the pensions expert at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: \"This announcement from the FSA serves notice to any insurance companies which aren't looking after their customers that the regulator has its eye on them.\"In response, from 1 March, the Association of British Insurers is introducing an annuity code of conduct which is meant to improve transparency in the market. The code will force insurers to publish their annuity rates \u2013 previously many firms kept what they offered to individuals secret.In addition, the code will ensure that individual savers will be quizzed about their health before signing up to an annuity. The idea is that savers will be better placed to take advantage of enhanced annuities which pay a bigger income to people with medical conditions that may shorten their life expectancy.Insurance industry figures show that only 2 per cent of people who sign up to their own pension provider's annuity deal enjoy an enhanced annuity, whereas 60 per cent of those who shop around for an annuity but using an independent financial adviser see their income boosted.\"This review not only has to look at people moving away from their current pension provider but also ensuring that more people buy the right annuity product for them. After all, annuity rates have been falling in the past few years, meaning that many do not get back what they put into their pension,\" Billy Burrows, the director of the Better Retirement Group, said.","The Swiss food giant Nestl\u00e9 was ordered to pay SFr 27,000 (\u00a318,700) compensation after being found liable in a civil case over the secret infiltration of an activist group that had campaigned against it.A court ruled last week in favour of anti-globalisation group Attac, following revelations that Nestl\u00e9 had hired the Swiss security company Securitas AG to infiltrate its meetings.A spokesman for Nestl\u00e9 noted the judge's decision \"with disappointment\" and reiterated \"that incitement to infiltration is against Nestl\u00e9's corporate business principles\"."," First of all quantitative easing hit pensioners because the surge of gilt purchases by the Bank of England created a sharp rise in annuity prices. That meant people about to retire faced much lower potential incomes than they had expected.OutlookNow savers are being hit by the Bank's Funding for Lending scheme. Oh yes, the latest numbers show it definitely had a beneficial effect on home-buyers, with more money available at slightly lower rates for mortgages. But the same Bank of England data also revealed that in December the average interest offered on new savings accounts fell by 0.2 per cent to just 2.11 per cent. That is the lowest rate since the end of the financial crisis in 2009, and way behind the cost of living as measured by the CPI at 2.7 per cent.No wonder that the man who signs the bank notes, Andrew Bailey, noting that savers' rates have come down far more sharply than borrowers', suggested \"the jury is still out on whether we have seen as much adjustment as we ought to see\".Well the jury needn't stay out too much longer. It is pretty clear the banks are using cheap money to bolster profits at the expense of pensioners and savers. Perhaps Mr Bailey should check with his boss, Sir Mervyn King, who in July joins the country's army of pensioners. Except, of course, Sir Mervyn is one of those lucky folk still on a final salary pension, which will pay him just over \u00a3200,000 a year.","Britain's scandal-hit banking industry was facing another hefty compensation bill today after a review of complex products sold to small businesses found more than 90% had been mis-sold.The Financial Services Authority (FSA) said a significant proportion of the 173 cases were likely to result in redress being due to the customer.It is believed that as many as 40,000 of the interest rate swaps could have been mis-sold to small businesses since the end of 2001 after the FSA highlighted \"serious failings\" in the sale of the products last summer.The FSA today said the UK's four big banks - Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds and RBS - have agreed to start work on reviewing individual sales and providing compensation.It is thought the cost of compensating businesses could total as much as \u00a31.5 billion across the sector, with Barclays, HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland having already set aside around \u00a3630 million to cover potential claims.Interest rate swaps are complicated derivatives that might have been sold as protection - or to act as a hedge - against a rise in interest rates without the customer fully grasping the downside risks.They were marketed as low-cost protection against rising interest rates, often as a condition of a business loan. But businesses as small as bed and breakfasts and takeaway shops were left with major bills after the financial crisis caused interest rates to slide.The FSA has also today provided guidelines for banks to differentiate between sophisticated firms that knew what they were buying and small firms which did not understand the products.The FSA has also been reviewing sales of interest rate swaps by Allied Irish Bank, Bank of Ireland, Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks, Co-Operative Bank, and Santander UK. It expects to confirm by February 14 that these banks can launch their own reviews.Martin Wheatley, chief executive designate of the Financial Conduct Authority, said he hoped the FSA's actions will ensure a fair and reasonable outcome for small and unsophisticated businesses.He added: \"Small businesses will now see the result of the review as the banks look at their individual cases.\"Where redress is due, businesses will be put back into the position they should have been without the mis-sale. But it is important to remember that this review is firmly focused on the particular circumstances of each sale.\"These will determine whether there were failings in the sales process and, if so, whether redress is due.\"Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) chairman John Walker said the findings were alarming but will also come as a relief to the thousands of small firms who have been waiting for clarity on the situation.He added: \"Now the pressure is on the banks to contact its customers. They must do so quickly and decisively to draw a line under this matter and bring the situation to a close.\"This review only covers the first four banks, with the report into the remaining seven due in the coming weeks. The FSB will continue to fight for other firms caught up in this scandal.\"Anthony Browne, chief executive of the British Bankers' Association, said: \"The announcement will give clarity to businesses and will enable the banks to put in place the steps needed to resolve each case for customers.\"Where customers have suffered unfairly the banks have all agreed that they will put it right.\"Banks will be contacting those companies affected shortly, prioritising those with the greatest need. Any business which is currently facing financial distress and is seeking a suspension of payments should get in touch with their bank immediately.\"PA","Britain's big banks are facing another billion-pound-plus hit after the City watchdog told them to review all sales of controversial interest rate hedging products that have crippled some small businesses.The demand immediately caused Royal Bank of Scotland to warn that it will increase provisions related to the scandal from the \u00a350m already set aside. Details will be revealed when it reports full-year results.The Financial Services Authority said in a review of 173 cases that banks had broken at least one rule in more than 90 per cent.In addition to RBS, Barclays, HSBC and Lloyds will have to review all interest rate hedging product sales and pay compensation to victims of mis-selling.Interest rate swaps were a derivative sold as a protection against rising interest rates alongside small business loans. But there is a sting in the tail: when interest rates unexpectedly plunged in response to the financial crisis, firms that bought them were hit with huge bills.While the cost of the mounting scandal is unlikely to approach the \u00a310bn set aside so far to compensate people mis-sold payment protection insurance, experts believe that as many as 40,000 small firms could be in line for payments, which could hit \u00a31.5bn.Martin Wheatley, the chief executive-designate of the Financial Conduct Authority, which is to replace the FSA, said: \"Where redress is due, businesses will be put back into the position they should have been without the mis-sale. But it is important to remember that this review is firmly focused on the particular circumstances of each sale. These will determine whether there were failings in the sales process.\"He was backed by the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Greg Clark, who said: \"Small businesses, in particular, should have been able to regard their banks as long-standing partners and advisers. Instead some of them were conned. Today's announcement reflects the new regulatory approach the Government is introducing to ensure that consumers are better protected.\"The British Bankers' Association said the review would provide \"clarity\", and analysts noted that the while the mis-selling appears to have been widespread and so potentially costly, the tone of the FSA's announcement was less aggressive than statements on PPI mis-selling.Ian Gordon, a banking analyst at Investec, said: \"Today's statement from the FSA is inconclusive. Some may be alarmed by the claim that 'over 90 per cent of the [reviewed] sales did not comply with at least one or more regulatory requirement', but there appears to be some sense of balance. Although a costly review of all interest rate swap sales is now underway, unlike PPI, there is not an near-automatic presumption of guilt.\"Another seven banks including Allied Irish and Santander UK are expected to launch reviews of mis-selling.","Argentina's foreign minister has pulled out of talks with William Hague over the future of the Falkland Islands after learning that islanders would also be attending.Argentine foreign minister Hector Timerman pulled out of the meeting, due to be held in London, after representatives of the Falkland Islands government were slated to attend.Argentina does not recognise the government as legitimate.In a statement Mr Timerman described the islanders as the 'colonists from the Malvinas.'Residents were widely expected to have told Argentina they should respect islanders' rights and leave them in peace.It is believed that the majority of the 3,000 islanders want to remain under British rule.This latest diplomatic spat is likely to further raise the tensions between the UK and Argentina over the future of the islands.In a strong statement Mr Timerman said he was sorry that Mr Hague \"can't meet without the supervision of the colonists from the Malvinas\".The curt letter added: 'It's a shame that you reject a bilateral meeting. You need not keep trying to put together meetings during my visit to London. Leave that job to our own efficient embassy.'Mr Timerman invited Mr Hague to meet with him in Buenos Aires, where he said \"my fellow foreign ministers can freely meet with whomever they wish without being pressured or having their presence conditioned on meetings that they haven't asked for and don't interest them\".Argentine president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner has in recent years strongly asserted her country's demands for the Falklands to come under its sovereignty despite the opposition of the islanders.Earlier this month, she had an advert published in British newspapers claiming that Argentina had been stripped of the islands in \"a blatant exercise of 19th century colonialism\".Prime Minister David Cameron has repeatedly insisted the residents of the Falklands must decide their own future and a referendum on the islands' political status is to be held in March.In a statement released before Mr Timerman turned down the meeting, the Legislative Assembly of the Falkland Islands stressed that their representatives, Dick Sawle and Jan Cheek, would not be \"negotiating any deal\".\"Rather we are anticipating a full and frank exchange of views,\" the assembly said.\"Indeed we look forward to giving Mr Timerman some very direct messages on the unacceptability of Argentina's actions against the Falkland Islands in recent years.\"We demand that our rights be respected, and that we be left in peace to choose our own future and to develop our country for our children and generations to come.\"It is only right that he should hear this directly from us, as well as from Mr Hague.\"A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: \"We are aware that Argentine foreign minister Hector Timerman is due in the UK next week, and have invited him to come to the Foreign Office to meet the Foreign Secretary and representatives of the UK Government and the Falkland Islands Government.\"","Scandal-hit Barclays is reportedly under investigation over allegations it lent Qatar money to invest in the bank in 2008 as part of an emergency cash call to avoid a Government bailout.The probe comes as the terms of the bank's fundraising at the height of the financial crisis are already being scrutinised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) and the Serious Fraud Office.Former Citi banker Peter Hahn, now at Cass Business School, told the Financial Times: \"The concept of lending money to any investor to purchase your own shares raises a series of immediate questions about disclosure and other regulatory issues.\"The allegation piles yet more pressure on Barclays chief executive Antony Jenkins as he battles to repair the bank's reputation following a string of scandals, including the Libor rate rigging affair and mis-selling of payment protection insurance.Barclays received cash injections in 2008 worth a total of \u00a36.1 billion from Qatar Holding, which is a subsidiary of the Qatar Investment Authority, and Challenger, an investment vehicle of Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, the prime minister of Qatar and his family.Investors from Abu Dhabi and other sovereign wealth funds also pumped cash into the group as part of a capital raising to prevent the Government bailing it out - a move that helped it avoid the fate suffered by part-nationalised Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group.But existing shareholders complained the terms offered to the new investors were too attractive, while the fees paid for the deal are also thought to be under investigation.Barclays and the FSA were not immediately available for comment.PA","Argentina's foreign minister has pulled out of talks with William Hague over the future of the Falkland Islands after learning that islanders would also be attending.Argentine foreign minister Hector Timerman pulled out of the meeting, due to be held in London, after representatives of the Falkland Islands government were slated to attend.Argentina does not recognise the government as legitimate.In a statement Mr Timerman described the islanders as the 'colonists from the Malvinas.'Residents were widely expected to have told Argentina they should respect islanders' rights and leave them in peace.It is believed that the majority of the 3,000 islanders want to remain under British rule.This latest diplomatic spat is likely to further raise the tensions between the UK and Argentina over the future of the islands.In a strong statement Mr Timerman said he was sorry that Mr Hague \"can't meet without the supervision of the colonists from the Malvinas\".The curt letter added: 'It's a shame that you reject a bilateral meeting. You need not keep trying to put together meetings during my visit to London. Leave that job to our own efficient embassy.'Mr Timerman invited Mr Hague to meet with him in Buenos Aires, where he said \"my fellow foreign ministers can freely meet with whomever they wish without being pressured or having their presence conditioned on meetings that they haven't asked for and don't interest them\".Argentine president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner has in recent years strongly asserted her country's demands for the Falklands to come under its sovereignty despite the opposition of the islanders.Earlier this month, she had an advert published in British newspapers claiming that Argentina had been stripped of the islands in \"a blatant exercise of 19th century colonialism\".Prime Minister David Cameron has repeatedly insisted the residents of the Falklands must decide their own future and a referendum on the islands' political status is to be held in March.In a statement released before Mr Timerman turned down the meeting, the Legislative Assembly of the Falkland Islands stressed that their representatives, Dick Sawle and Jan Cheek, would not be \"negotiating any deal\".\"Rather we are anticipating a full and frank exchange of views,\" the assembly said.\"Indeed we look forward to giving Mr Timerman some very direct messages on the unacceptability of Argentina's actions against the Falkland Islands in recent years.\"We demand that our rights be respected, and that we be left in peace to choose our own future and to develop our country for our children and generations to come.\"It is only right that he should hear this directly from us, as well as from Mr Hague.\"A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: \"We are aware that Argentine foreign minister Hector Timerman is due in the UK next week, and have invited him to come to the Foreign Office to meet the Foreign Secretary and representatives of the UK Government and the Falkland Islands Government.\"","Bookmakers and casinos have avoided paying around \u00a31bn in UK tax on bets placed by British people by routing them through subsidiaries based in overseas tax havens, can reveal.The IndependentFootball, racing and poker betting operators are estimated to be saving around \u00a3250m a year by offshoring online gambling \u2013 more than the highly publicised recent cases of tax avoidance by Starbucks and Amazon.Although William Hill and Ladbrokes are UK Plcs with hundreds of high street branches, bets placed on their websites and phone lines are regulated and taxed in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar.Other big names such as Betfair, PaddyPower and 888 \u2013 which heavily market their games in the UK \u2013 also avoid paying British tax on \"remote\" betting and gaming.The offshoring, which has grown in recent years, allows operators to replace the UK gambling duty of 15 per cent on gross profits with an effective rate of duty of less than one per cent.An investigation by has found that all of the top 10 operators in \"remote gambling\" now headquarter a part or all of their operations in Gibraltar, the Isle of Man or Guernsey \u2013 at a cost to the Treasury of \u00a31bn in lost duty since 2009.The IndependentThe figures dwarf the tens of millions of pounds of tax avoided by Starbucks and Amazon, which have attracted heavy criticism for minimising corporation tax through the use of sweetheart deals in Luxembourg and Switzerland. Yet the Treasury \u2013 which is imposing cuts to public services as part of the Government's austerity drive \u2013 does not intend to close the betting duty loophole for almost two years.It is currently consulting on a new gambling duty centred on \"point of consumption\" \u2013 taxing where the bet was placed \u2013 rather than where it was taken (\"point of supply\"), with the intention of introducing the change in December 2014.The top indigenous British bookmakers say that for years they tried to warn the Government they were being pushed offshore by the UK's \"uncompetitive\" tax rate in an increasingly global trade.However, they are also aware that publicity about the amount of money being diverted from the Exchequer by their move to Gibraltar and other places could play badly with the public.In a statement, William Hill, which saves an estimated \u00a337m annually in betting duty, vigorously denied it was \"engaged in any avoidance scheme or artificial tax structure\".Ladbrokes, which saves around \u00a318m annually, said it had only moved offshore reluctantly \"to survive and compete\".However, disclosure of the scale of the money lost to the UK Government across the entire industry is likely to provoke anger, at a time of austerity caused by a growing deficit in the public finances. Richard Murphy, director of Tax Research, said: \"This indicates, yet again, the toothless approach of the UK's tax authorities to tax avoidance.\"Signs that gambling taxation would fail to tackle the rise of the internet first emerged a decade ago. To counter growing foreign competition from gaming sites headquartered in Gibraltar and Malta, in 2001 Gordon Brown replaced betting duty of 6.75 per cent on stake money to a 15 per cent duty on bookmakers' gross profits.Leading British bookies were widely reported to have entered into a \"gentlemen's agreement\" with the then Chancellor to move their putative offshore operations back on shore \u2013 which they did. But, undercut by rivals based in tax havens, particularly those operating casino sites, in 2009 William Hill, Ladbrokes and SkyBet moved their online and phone business offshore. In 2011, Betfair, the fast-growing betting exchange, joined the exodus by relocating to Gibraltar, telling investors it expected to save \u00a320m in tax annually. Only two major UK gambling companies \u2013 Bet365, a family firm based in Stoke-on-Trent, and Sky \u2013 pay UK duty on sports betting, although their casino games are located, respectively, in Gibraltar and Alderney.The Government's current plan is to force companies taking bets from Britons to obtain a licence from the Gambling Commission or risk having their websites and advertising blocked. However the Treasury, which would have to enact the change in a parliamentary Bill, does not expect to introduce the change before December next year and is still considering the results of a consultation which closed last summer.Several gambling companies are fiercely opposed to the move, arguing that a 15 per cent rate would endanger a British success story.Other operators back the change in an industry associated with social problems. The Coates family, which owns Bet365, wants the new tax to be introduced as quickly as possible. Ian Burke, chief executive of Blue Square-owner Rank Group, told The Independent that the current system of taxation was \"indefensible\". The Treasury defended its record, saying: \"The Government is levelling the playing field on remote gambling taxation. This is a major reform, and the first time a UK Government is taxing remote gambling companies with no base in the UK.\"Labour's shadow Treasury spokeswoman, Catherine McKinnell, said: \"The offshore gambling industry is making massive profits from tax-paying UK punters and yet hundreds of millions of pounds are potentially being lost to the Exchequer at the same time as ordinary taxpayers are being hit hard by cuts and tax rises.\"It isn't just UK taxpayers who are paying the price \u2013 responsible firms who have remained in the UK and employ thousands of people are at an unfair disadvantage. The Government should be straining every sinew to clamp down on aggressive tax avoidance, and loopholes, as quickly as possible.\"Mr Murphy added that the Treasury's approach of working in co-operation with business to secure tax agreements was \"not working\".\"We know it failed in the case of banking where Barclays ignored their deal with HMRC months after they signed it,\" he said. \"Now we can see that the negotiated arrangements with the gambling industry \u2013 where they were given all the concessions they demanded \u2013 haven't worked.\"Addicted Britain: A growing epidemicGambling addiction has soared in the UK, fuelled by the rapid growth of online betting.The number of hardcore addicts has doubled in the past six years to almost 500,000. The number of people in danger of becoming problem gamblers, meanwhile, has reached nearly a million.One of the areas that has seen the biggest is online gambling.Around nine million Britons will gamble online this year. The UK online gambling industry is expected to be worth more than \u00a32bn in 2013. The boom was brought about in part by a relaxation of laws regulating the industry under a shake-up by Tony Blair's government in 2005.The Gambling Act allowed bookmakers to advertise in the UK for the first time.Charities have been critical of celebrities glamorising gambling through endorsements. The Australian cricketer Shane Warne promotes gambling to his one million Twitter followers through his @Warne888 handle \u2013 he signed a lucrative deal in 2008 with the 888\u00a0Poker group to represent the company at events around the world. Ray Winstone became the face of bet365 and regularly features at half-time during games urging people to \"bet in play, now\".","Banks have been handed a free pass allowing them to get out of paying compensation on the biggest interest-rate swap mis-selling claims, has learnt.The IndependentThe controversial products were pushed aggressively by banks on to small and medium-sized companies when they were sold loans. They were sold as a way of protecting against rising interest rates. But they left firms facing huge bills that sent some to the wall during the financial crisis, when interest rates unexpectedly plummeted.Banks will now be allowed to throw out the biggest compensation claims.The Financial Services Authority ordered banks on Thursday to review all sales, after a survey found that more than 90 per cent included in the review breached at least one of its rules.But it has emerged that swaps of \u00a310m and above will be excluded,\u00a0 exempting the banks from compensating companies that took them out.There was no mention of the figure in the watchdog\u2019s press releases or in a detailed larger document. It was\u00a0 accessible only through study of a complicated flow chart. While the \u00a310m figure looks substantial, experts said it was conceivable that some relatively small enterprises, and many medium-sized firms, could be excluded from the process as a result.City analysts suggest that banks\u2019 compensation claims related to swaps mis-selling could reach \u00a31.5bn \u2013 a large sum but only a fraction of the more than \u00a310bn set aside to cover the mis-selling of payment protection insurance policies. Excluding the bigger claims will help keep the that figure down, amid mounting concerns about banks\u2019 financial health.Rich Eldridge, head of finance at the law firm Manches, described the \u201ccap\u201d on the review as \u201cstartling\u201d.Mr Eldridge, who contacted after spotting the get-out, clause said: \u201cThe FSA report just contains an oblique reference to customers who meet a balance-sheet and employee test being included in the review where their swap does not exceed \u00a310m.\u00a0 In fact all swaps over \u00a310m have been unexpectedly excluded, irrespective of balance-sheet or turnover figures.\u201dThe IndependentMr Eldridge continued: \u201cMany people suspected the potential exposure of the banks was too large for taxpayer-owned banks. It seems the FSA has bowed to the pressure from the banks by agreeing to exclude the largest claims.\u201cI have lost all faith in the process. A process in which the FSA bows to the strength of the banks will not deliver a fair result for borrowers. It is particularly concerning that the FSA has not been upfront about changing the review to exclude the larger claims.\u201dAs a result, shares in the banks have hardly moved. Barclays shares finished down just 2p at 300p following the announcement; Lloyds shares have lost only 0.62p to 51.64p, and HSBC has given up 4.5p to 719.6p. Royal Bank of Scotland, the only bank to warn of increased provisions as a result of the review, has lost 6.7p to 340.5p. That indicates the City is relatively relaxed about the review and the potential costs from it.Watchdogs are privately extremely concerned about the potential cost of legal claims relating to the Libor interest-rate fixing scandal. None of the big banks has yet made any provision to cover these.Critics have complained that, because the banks will be conducting the review, this leaves them in the position of being \u201cjudge and jury\u201d, although the FSA will be closely watching how they carry it out.A spokesman for the FSA defended the imposition of the \u00a310m cap and said it was aimed at bringing more firms into the review process. Under the Companies Act, a number of tests are set for a company to be considered \u201csmall\u201d. They are having a turnover of less than \u00a36.5m, a balance sheet of less than \u00a33.26m and less than 50 employees. A breach of any two means a company is no longer defined as small.But critics said that could easily exclude many farms, which often employ more than 50 people, and whose land holdings push their balance sheet above \u00a33.26m.As a result the FSA abandoned the tests and simply set a \u00a310m cap.A spokesman for the regulator, soon to be replaced by the Financial Conduct Authority, said: \u201cWe introduced the \u00a310m notional hedge limit to bring businesses such as farms, B&amp;Bs and small care homes into the review. Without this change they might otherwise have been excluded due to the size of their fixed assets and numbers of seasonal [or] part-time workers.\u201dQ&amp;A: Swap with a sting in its tailQ. What is an interest rate swap? It\u2019s a financial product that was sold to a number of businesses alongside loans to protect them against rising interest rates.A.Q. Why has there been problems with them? Swaps have been described as similar to insurance, but they are actually complicated derivative products which often carry a sting in the tail. They left many companies facing high costs when the recession hit and rates unexpectedly tumbled.A.Q. Why is there a mis-selling review? The sophistication of interest rate swaps meant many firms weren\u2019t clear about what they were buying into and the potential risks.A.Q. Why does the Financial Services Authority want to impose a cap on claims? It argues that the larger firms should have been able to seek advice from lawyers and accountants, although it is a matter of debate as to whether a small provincial lawyer or accountant would have had any more knowledge of the way some of the more complex swaps work than the companies they were advising.A."]},{"x":0.406309993264343,"y":0.441658422968853,"no_docs":19,"words":[{"prob":0.000102763323834018,"word":"mr"},{"prob":1.42742359108265e-05,"word":"police"},{"prob":3.23909656237125e-05,"word":"local"},{"prob":0.000157741634848515,"word":"government"},{"prob":0.0041497894658136,"word":"london"},{"prob":1.42742359108265e-05,"word":"department"},{"prob":1.42742359108265e-05,"word":"today"}],"docs":["Thousands of sick or disabled people have died after undergoing assessments to find out whether they were fit to work, the House of Commons was told today.Atos, the firm contracted to conduct work capability assessment (WCA) tests for the Government, was condemned by MPs for \u201cruthlessly\u201d pressurising sick and disabled people into returning to their jobs.The debate was told of cases of people who had committed suicide after being stripped of their benefits under the process and of an incontinence sufferer who was told she could return to work wearing a nappy.Former Labour minister Michael Meacher opened the debate saying that 1,300 people had died after being placed in the \u201cwork-related activity group\u201d, for those currently too ill to be employed but expected to start preparing for an eventual return to work.A further 2,200 died before the assessment process was completed and 7,100 died after being judged to be entitled to unconditional support because they are too ill or disabled to work.Mr Meacher asked: \u201cIs it reasonable to pressurise seriously disabled persons into work so ruthlessly when there are already 2.5 million people unemployed and, on average, eight persons chasing every vacancy, unless they are also provided with the active and extensive support they obviously need in order to get and to hold down work, which is certainly not the case at present?\u201dLabour\u2019s Iain Wright, MP for Hartlepool, told MPs that one of his constituents, a woman who suffered from Crohn\u2019s disease, had been told she could wear a nappy to work. \u201cWhat sort of country have we become, what sort of ethical values does the Government have, if that\u2019s the degrading and crass way in which decent law abiding constituents of mine are being dealt with?\u201d he said.\u201cAll the evidence that I have in my constituency demonstrates that the system is not working and the most vulnerable and ill constituents in Hartlepool are paying the price. The Government is treating my constituents like dirt, it needs to change.\u201dShadow Employment minister Stephen Timms said there was no doubt the current arrangements were causing \u201cimmense problems and immense anxiety\u201d. He added: \u201cWe shouldn\u2019t be allowing this to continue, the system does need fast and fundamental reform.\u201dKevan Jones, a former Labour minister, said suicides of claimants who were found fit to work by Atos had been reported. \u201cThere are...a number of well-publicised cases where people have taken their own lives because of this system,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is not too strong to say that this Coalition Government has blood on their hands for the deaths of those individuals.\u201dA spokeswoman for Atos Healthcare said: \u201cWe know that this can be a difficult process for people and we do all we can to make sure the service we provide is as professional and compassionate as possible. We have been doing this work...for over a decade and our doctors, nurses and physiotherapists are fully trained and experienced, with many coming directly from the NHS.\u201d","Millions of disabled people will lose out under the Government\u2019s plans to keep the annual rise in benefits below the cost of living, it emerged last night.Pensions minister Steve Webb has confirmed that one in three households with a disabled person will be \u00a3156 a year worse off on average of under new rules capping the rise in most benefit payments to 1 per cent \u2013 1.7 per cent below the current rate of inflation.The disclosure comes days after his boss, Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith, insisted that the Government was \u201cprotecting disabled people\u201d.Labour claimed the details proved the Government had been hiding the truth about the real impact of their \u201cstrivers\u2019 tax\u201d.The cap, announced by Chancellor George Osborne in his autumn, is expected to save \u00a31.1bn next year and double that by 2018. He pledged that benefits paid to the most vulnerable claimants would go up in line with the cost of living.But Mr Webb said, in a parliamentary answer: \u201cThe Department estimates that approximately 34 per cent of households where someone describes themselves [as] disabled are affected by this Bill, with an average change of income of around -\u00a33 a week in 2015-16 compared to uprating by the consumer prices index (CPI).\u201cThis represents around 3.4 million households in Great Britain.\u201dShadow work and pensions secretary Liam Byrne said: \u201cThis is shocking.\u00a0 It tells you everything you need to know about the priorities of this Government that David Cameron and George Osborne are cutting support for disabled people at the same time as giving 8,000 millionaires an average tax cut of over \u00a3107,000.\u201d","Britain\u2019s HS2 high-speed rail line could be delayed for a decade as a unified coalition of Conservative councils, MPs and environmental groups threaten disruptive legal action.The new \u00a333bn line is intended to kickstart the country\u2019s economic recovery, but Department for Transport officials now fear work may not begin until 2022, amid a flood of court cases and judicial reviews, can disclose.The IndependentDavid Cameron today promised that HS2 would \u201cspread the UK\u2019s wealth\u201d and give a \u201cbetter balance to the UK economy\u201d as the route of its Y-shaped second phase from Birmingham to Manchester and Leeds was unveiled.But the Government is now facing a concerted revolt as northern local authorities and backbench MPs affected by the proposed line unite with campaigners opposed to its first phase from London to Birmingham.Michael Fabricant, MP for Lichfield and Tory deputy chairman, warned that Chancellor George Osborne, will now \u201csee the strength of public opinion for himself\u201d, with the line due to pass through his Tatton constituency in Cheshire. He added: \u201cEvery MP along the route will have people lobbying him. The people of Cheshire, like the people of Staffordshire, don\u2019t hesitate to make their views known \u2013 and quite right too.\u201dThe Conservative MP for North-West Leicestershire, Andrew Bridgen, Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin today trumpeted the benefits of HS2, including increased North-South rail capacity, halving the current two hour eight minute journey time between and Manchester and London, the creation of 100,000 new jobs, and substantial investment boosts for major city centres,Mr Cameron chaired a special gathering of the Cabinet in Leeds to discuss the plans, with ministers then fanning out across the region to make the case for the project.Phase two running north from Birmingham along a total of 211 miles of new track will have stops and new stations at Manchester, Manchester Airport, Toton in the East Midlands, Sheffield and Leeds. Sheffield will miss out on a city-centre station with a new link built instead at Meadowhall.\u00a0 High-speed trains will also stop at Crewe\u2019s existing station.But a planned spur taking HS2 to Heathrow airport has been put on hold until after the Davies review of Britain\u2019s hub airport and aviation policy is completed in 2015.Constituencies bisected by the provisional route for the second phase are located in Cheshire, Staffordshire, Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire, the East Midlands and Yorkshire.\u00a0The government is due to finalise the precise route of HS2 next year in advance of legislation in 2015. Construction of the first phase is planned to start in 2017,.However if a flood of judicial reviews and court actions over the legality of the consultation process delay planning authorisation, and ultimately require routes to be heavily redrafted, Whitehall officials fear that work could be pushed back to 2022.This could also delay the start of work on the northern extension, which is due to begin in the middle of the next decade ahead of a planned opening in 2032-33.The High Court is already considering whether the first phase of the project, which will take\u00a0 is legally flawed. The challenge was taken to the court by campaigners who accused the Government of failing to undertake a \u201cstrategic environmental assessment\u201d or arrange an adequate consultation process.The legal action focuses on the London-Birmingham route, however its outcome will have repercussions for the entire HS2 project.\u00a0Penny Gaines, chair of the StopHS2 pressure group, said she had already been contacted by constituents and local politicians in northern counties opposed to the provisional route of the second phase.Ms Gaines said the gathering storm against HS2 was on course to produce \u201ca strong alliance that included Conservative-run councils, MPs, activists from both the Green Party and UKIP, as well as a some Labour MPs and supporters who will take action to oppose this fundamentally flawed London-centric policy.\u201dLast week in the Commons, the Shadow Works and Pension Secretary, Liam Bryne, described\u00a0 HS2 plans for his Birmingham city-centre constituency as likely \u201cnot to last 10 minutes in court.\u201d He described plans to tie up land for a marshalling yard as\u00a0 \u201ca monstrous economic crime against the city.\u201dCouncillors contacted by echoed Mr Byrne\u2019s comments that the HS2 consultation process was flawed and would be legally challenged.The IndependentCouncillor George Walton, a civil engineer and the mayor of Cheshire East, predicted there would be visible public outrage if the HS2 route was forced through \u201chighly loved countryside\u201d\u00a0 lying south of Manchester.Simon Jenkins, the chairman of the National Trust, said: \u201cIt is not a sensible project. If you\u2019re going to spend \u00a333 billion on transport in this country you would not spend it on this train.\u201dIn Nottingham,\u00a0 the local chair of the Campaign for Better Transport, David Thornhill, described the government\u2019s plans as \u201cenvironmentally catastrophic and wasteful\u201d.Professor Greg Marsden, director of the Institute for Transport Studies at Leeds University, said \u201cIt is hard to assess just what HS2 will achieve.\u201d\u00a0 He said critics could rightly round on the lack of precision and detail on what it would deliver for its \u201c big ticket price.\u201dThe Chancellor,\u00a0 George Osborne,\u00a0 predicted the investment would become the\u00a0 \u201cthe engine of growth\u201d in the north of England\u00a0 and the Midlands.Positive reaction\u00a0 to the plans included the TUC\u2019s general secretary, Frances O\u2019Grady, who said\u00a0 HS2 held the potential to be \u201c a game-changer for the economy \u201d.The British Chambers of Commerce, and the Institute of Directors, both welcomed the provisional route and the government\u2019s commitment to new investment.","Police forces should be made to positively discriminate in order to recruit more black and ethnic minority officers, a chief constable has said.Sir Peter Fahy, Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police, said there was a growing diversity problem within the police service and that he was \"embarrassed\" at the lack of progress to address it.The lead spokesman on workforce development for the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) believes it should be a legal requirement to create a more diverse service, including more black and ethnic minority officers in high-ranking positions.He said his views were not about \"targets or political correctness\" but about a \"great\" operational need.\"Policing is unique, we need to be legitimate within the community because of the exercise of power,\" he said.\"Often we are out there resolving disputes between communities and we need officers that understand different communities and different backgrounds.\"Then there is the practical stuff about surveillance and undercover officers, we need to be a more diverse police service.\"There are 48 black or ethnic minority superintendents and chief superintendents in England and Wales, and six chief officers - representing 3% of all chiefs, the Guardian reported.Mr Fahey added that budget cuts and the removal of senior posts from the service will worsen the diversity problem and reduce the opportunity for promotion to senior roles.He would like to see black and ethnic minority officers follow the progress of women within the service.Police Minister Damian Green said he was \"struck\" at how much needs to be done to improve the representation of black and minority ethnic populations, especially at senior levels, The Guardian reported.But he added that it was not an issue for the Government to address.\"My firm belief is that the police must take ownership for these issues,\" he said.PA","A fierce backlash across the Conservative heartlands is expected today when David Cameron promises to steam ahead with construction of a high-speed rail link connecting London to Birmingham and the north.Opposition to the scheme, which is already setting parts of the Conservative Party against the Government, is likely to increase when the Transport Secretary, Patrick McLoughlin, publishes the proposed routes that will link Birmingham to Manchester and Leeds. The whole project will be roughly shaped like a Y, with Birmingham as the point where the three lines meet. The London to Birmingham stem has already been published, provoking local opposition along almost its entire length.The Prime Minister is convinced that the \u00a332.7bn project will provide a vital stimulus for construction firms.The Department for Transport reckons that constructing and maintaining the line and new station hubs will create 100,000 jobs, as well as cutting the travel time between cities, and reducing congestion on the railway.When the project is complete, the train journey from London to Manchester will be cut to one hour eight minutes, half its present duration, and the Leeds to London journey will be cut to one hour 22 minutes. From Birmingham, the journey time to Manchester will be cut to 41 minutes, and to Leeds it will be 57 minutes.Mr Cameron is expected to chair a cabinet meeting in the north this morning, after which ministers will fan out along the route to spread the message. \"Linking communities and businesses across the country and shrinking the distances between our greatest cities,\" Mr Cameron said. \"High speed rail is an engine for growth that will help invigorate our regional economies. It is vital that we get on board the high-speed revolution.\"We are in a global race and this Government's decision to make high-speed rail a reality is another example of the action we are taking to equip Britain to compete in that race. High-speed rail is a catalyst that will help to secure economic prosperity across Britain, rebalance our economy and support tens of thousands of jobs.\"But opponents question whether the project will actually bring benefits that will justify its immense cost. They suggest the calculations about its effects are likely to be as flawed as the thinking that caused the West Coast main-line franchise to be awarded in August to First Direct.After a legal challenge by Virgin, the current operators, the Department for Transport had to admit that it had miscalculated. The mistake could cost taxpayers \u00a3100m.The Government is already facing a bitter backlash over the planned route from London to Birmingham. The former cabinet minister Cheryl Gillan, whose Amersham and Chesham seat is on the route, has described it as \"the wrong railway in the wrong place at the wrong time and for such a high cost\". The Speaker, John Bercow, whose Buckingham seat is similarly affected, has called it a \"wretched, unnecessary project\".The Chancellor George Osborne may now have to cope with some local opposition because his Tatton constituency lies along the obvious route between Birmingham and Manchester.Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: \"The Government is deluding itself if it thinks spending vast sums of taxpayers' money on this white elephant is a substitute for a genuine plan for growth.\"The HS2 business case just isn't credible and ministers aren't being honest about the hidden costs or flawed projections that the project is based on. This is a rich man's train line which every family in Britain is paying a fortune for,\" he added.\"The Government must look to strategic alternatives that could deliver greater capacity more quickly and without the enormous bill.\"","Falklands veteran Simon Weston, who had to pull out of a police commissioner election because he had broken the law at 14, has welcomed the Court of Appeal ruling on criminal record checks.Mr Weston, who was fined as a teenager for being a passenger in a stolen car, said the current legislation would lead to \"so many good people\" being written off and was pleased that \"legal minds agree\".The 51-year-old said he withdrew from the elections for the \u00a3100,000-a-year job of police and crime commissioner for South Wales after he was \"hounded\" over the offence.He said: \"I told the truth, then I was getting hounded by one or two people telling me I definitely can't stand. It was when I was 14, I'm 51 now. How long must this mistake haunt my life?\"He went on: \"How many people didn't pinch a pack of sweets at the age of 10 or 11-years-old? We all make ridiculous mistakes before we're 16-years-old.\"And added: \"We're going to write off so many good people.\"Mr Weston, a father of three and a former Welsh Guardsman, was badly burned when the RFA Sir Galahad was destroyed in 1982 during the Falklands conflict.He suffered 46 per cent burns on his body and underwent 70 separate major operations or surgical procedures during a slow recovery.Mr Weston overcame his injuries and went on to forge a new career as a charity worker, writer of children's books and after dinner speaker.When he announced his decision to stand in February, he urged others to follow his example to stop ageing politicians taking the roles.He said: \"It was awful to have to stand down, especially when I wanted to represent the people of South Wales.\"I just needed to get to the end of it. I couldn't put up with having people question what I did when I was 14 when I'm now 51.\"If we look at my life and read through my history - haven't I done enough to wash these sins from my hands?\"He said today's ruling proved there were \"legal minds that agree\" and added that he welcomed that something was being done to \"address\" the issue.PA","The London Underground map is the definitive guide for Londoners and visitors moving around the capital, however, as more lines and stations are added it is getting a little cluttered.The new route of the Overground connecting from Surrey Quays to Clapham Junction, the extension of the Northern line and the reintroduction of the Thameslink recently lead to efforts by Francisco Dans and Jonathan Fisher to rework the classic Tube map.But this week, alternative Tube map veteran Maxwell Roberts (in 2007 he designed a map based on the above-ground distances between stations) unveiled his latest map, proposing a network of straight lines and circles.The current London map divides London by zones and leaves suburbs aside, but with this one London feels as a whole, including the Thameslink line and the forthcoming Crossrail, neither of which are featured on the current standard map.However, Mr Roberts thinks that this model is not ready yet to send to TFL for comments, as he told Annie Mole's blog: 'No great advances in usability here, but it was fun to make it.'","A US army veteran has had a double arm transplant after losing all four limbs in a roadside bomb-blast in Iraq.Surgeons at Baltimore\u2019s John Hopkins Hospital released images of Brendan Marrocco\u2019s staggering operation yesterday, ahead of a press conference at which Marrocco himself spoke.The 26-year-old said he is now looking forward to driving and swimming, adding: \u201cI just want to get the most out of these arms, and just as goals come up, knock them down and take it absolutely as far as I can.\u201dThe New York-born army sergeant said that he has been coping fine using prosthetic legs since he was wounded in 2009, but had struggled to come to terms with the loss of his arms.\u201cYou talk with your hands, you do everything with your hands, basically, and when you don't have that, you're kind of lost for a while,\u201d he said.Dr Jaimie Shores, John Hopkins Hospital\u2019s director of hand transplantation said: \u201cHe's a young man with a tremendous amount of hope, and he's stubborn - stubborn in a good way\u2026I think the sky's the limit.\u201dShores said Marrocco has already been trying to use his hands, although he lacks feeling in the fingers, and he's eager to do more as the slow-growing nerves and muscles mend.Marrocco is the first soldier to survive losing all four limbs in the Iraq War, and the procedure was only the seventh double-hand or double-arm transplant ever done in the United States.Marrocco said his chief desire is to drive the black Dodge Charger that's been sitting in his garage for three years, and he also plans to swim and compete in a marathon using a hand-cycle.Marrocco expects to spend three to four months at the John Hopkins Hospital, then return to a military hospital to continue his physical therapy.","A US army sergeant has received a double arm transplant after losing them while on service in Iraq.Brendan Marrocco who lost all his limbs four years ago underwent the rare surgery at Baltimore's John Hopkins hospital.The surgery took over 13 hours and involved 16 doctors who volunteered to help.","The Government today predicted Britain would have its first foreign chief constable in years rather than decades as it unveiled a shake-up of police recruitment rules.Damian Green, the policing minister, said the current system put off some ambitious recruits to the police service because it would take 25 years to reach top jobs.Announcing the reforms that have been opposed by rank-and-file police, Mr Green said: \u201cIt's a very odd situation where you can only get to the senior ranks of the police in this country if you have started right at the bottom and worked your way up. It's not true in the armed services.\u201dThe proposals to be unveiled by Theresa May later are understood to include direct entry into the police at superintendent level and changes to the law that will allow foreign police chiefs to run forces for the first time.Current legislation prevented US \"supercop\" Bill Bratton, former head of the New York police, applying to take charge of the Metropolitan Police in 2011.Mr Green compared the situation to the recruitment of Mark Carney, a Canadian, to become Governor of the Bank of England. \u201cBringing in the best talent\u2026 is absolutely essential to continue the reform that has successfully led to falling crime in this country,\u201d he told Radio 4\u2019s Today programme. The changes were also intended to lead to more diversity in the force with more women and recruits from ethnic minorities, he said.The changes are part of the package of reforms drawn up by ex-rail regulator Tom Winsor in his wide-ranging review of police pay and pensions that set policing organisations at loggerheads with the Government.Under Mr Winsor\u2019s proposals exceptional\" applicants would have the chance to rise from civilian to inspector in just three years.The changes were designed to encourage candidates from business, the military and the security services to change the culture and give the police the same standing as law and medicine, said Mr Winsor last year when he unveiled the changes.Mr Winsor, now Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary, said that the police needed to evolve to keep up with ever more resourceful criminals and for too long police work had been seen as undemanding.The Police Federation, which represents officers up to the rank of chief inspector, said at the times that the reforms represented a \u201cpotentially lethal attack on the office of constable, the bedrock of British policing.\u201dMetropolitan Police commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe told a policing conference earlier this month that it was time to \u201cconsider and support\u201d direct entry. He added that he would like to see one in 10 senior officers recruited from outside the police force.","The Government today predicted Britain would have its first foreign chief constable in years rather than decades as it unveiled a shake-up of police recruitment rules.Damian Green, the policing minister, said the current system put off some ambitious recruits to the police service because it would take 25 years to reach top jobs.Announcing the reforms that have been opposed by rank-and-file police, Mr Green said: \u201cIt's a very odd situation where you can only get to the senior ranks of the police in this country if you have started right at the bottom and worked your way up. It's not true in the armed services.\u201dThe proposals to be unveiled by Theresa May later are understood to include direct entry into the police at superintendent level and changes to the law that will allow foreign police chiefs to run forces for the first time.Current legislation prevented US \"supercop\" Bill Bratton, former head of the New York police, applying to take charge of the Metropolitan Police in 2011.Mr Green compared the situation to the recruitment of Mark Carney, a Canadian, to become Governor of the Bank of England. \u201cBringing in the best talent\u2026 is absolutely essential to continue the reform that has successfully led to falling crime in this country,\u201d he told Radio 4\u2019s Today programme. The changes were also intended to lead to more diversity in the force with more women and recruits from ethnic minorities, he said.The changes are part of the package of reforms drawn up by ex-rail regulator Tom Winsor in his wide-ranging review of police pay and pensions that set policing organisations at loggerheads with the Government.Under Mr Winsor\u2019s proposals exceptional\" applicants would have the chance to rise from civilian to inspector in just three years.The changes were designed to encourage candidates from business, the military and the security services to change the culture and give the police the same standing as law and medicine, said Mr Winsor last year when he unveiled the changes.Mr Winsor, now Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary, said that the police needed to evolve to keep up with ever more resourceful criminals and for too long police work had been seen as undemanding.The Police Federation, which represents officers up to the rank of chief inspector, said at the times that the reforms represented a \u201cpotentially lethal attack on the office of constable, the bedrock of British policing.\u201dMetropolitan Police commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe told a policing conference earlier this month that it was time to \u201cconsider and support\u201d direct entry. He added that he would like to see one in 10 senior officers recruited from outside the police force.","A US army veteran has had a double arm transplant after losing all four limbs in a roadside bomb-blast in Iraq.Surgeons at Baltimore\u2019s John Hopkins Hospital released images of Brendan Marrocco\u2019s staggering operation yesterday, ahead of a press conference at which Marrocco himself spoke.The 26-year-old said he is now looking forward to driving and swimming, adding: \u201cI just want to get the most out of these arms, and just as goals come up, knock them down and take it absolutely as far as I can.\u201dThe New York-born army sergeant said that he has been coping fine using prosthetic legs since he was wounded in 2009, but had struggled to come to terms with the loss of his arms.\u201cYou talk with your hands, you do everything with your hands, basically, and when you don't have that, you're kind of lost for a while,\u201d he said.Dr Jaimie Shores, John Hopkins Hospital\u2019s director of hand transplantation said: \u201cHe's a young man with a tremendous amount of hope, and he's stubborn - stubborn in a good way\u2026I think the sky's the limit.\u201dShores said Marrocco has already been trying to use his hands, although he lacks feeling in the fingers, and he's eager to do more as the slow-growing nerves and muscles mend.Marrocco is the first soldier to survive losing all four limbs in the Iraq War, and the procedure was only the seventh double-hand or double-arm transplant ever done in the United States.Marrocco said his chief desire is to drive the black Dodge Charger that's been sitting in his garage for three years, and he also plans to swim and compete in a marathon using a hand-cycle.Marrocco expects to spend three to four months at the John Hopkins Hospital, then return to a military hospital to continue his physical therapy.","The Government today predicted Britain would have its first foreign chief constable in years rather than decades as it unveiled a shake-up of police recruitment rules.Damian Green, the policing minister, said the current system put off some ambitious recruits to the police service because it would take 25 years to reach top jobs.Announcing the reforms that have been opposed by rank-and-file police, Mr Green said: \u201cIt's a very odd situation where you can only get to the senior ranks of the police in this country if you have started right at the bottom and worked your way up. It's not true in the armed services.\u201dThe proposals to be unveiled by Theresa May later are understood to include direct entry into the police at superintendent level and changes to the law that will allow foreign police chiefs to run forces for the first time.Current legislation prevented US \"supercop\" Bill Bratton, former head of the New York police, applying to take charge of the Metropolitan Police in 2011.Mr Green compared the situation to the recruitment of Mark Carney, a Canadian, to become Governor of the Bank of England. \u201cBringing in the best talent\u2026 is absolutely essential to continue the reform that has successfully led to falling crime in this country,\u201d he told Radio 4\u2019s Today programme. The changes were also intended to lead to more diversity in the force with more women and recruits from ethnic minorities, he said.The changes are part of the package of reforms drawn up by ex-rail regulator Tom Winsor in his wide-ranging review of police pay and pensions that set policing organisations at loggerheads with the Government.Under Mr Winsor\u2019s proposals exceptional\" applicants would have the chance to rise from civilian to inspector in just three years.The changes were designed to encourage candidates from business, the military and the security services to change the culture and give the police the same standing as law and medicine, said Mr Winsor last year when he unveiled the changes.Mr Winsor, now Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary, said that the police needed to evolve to keep up with ever more resourceful criminals and for too long police work had been seen as undemanding.The Police Federation, which represents officers up to the rank of chief inspector, said at the times that the reforms represented a \u201cpotentially lethal attack on the office of constable, the bedrock of British policing.\u201dMetropolitan Police commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe told a policing conference earlier this month that it was time to \u201cconsider and support\u201d direct entry. He added that he would like to see one in 10 senior officers recruited from outside the police force.","Multimillion-pound plans by three police forces to outsource services to the firm at the centre of the Olympics security debacle have collapsed.Hertfordshire Police and Crime Commissioner David Lloyd said the Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire Strategic Alliance had discontinued negotiations with G4S.The three forces were looking in to working with G4S in a bid to save \u00a373 million by outsourcing support functions.The proposals involved switching 1,100 roles, including human resources, IT and finance to the security contractor.But doubts were raised after the company was forced to admit severe failings over the Olympics security contract last summer, which led to police officers and 3,500 extra troops being deployed to support the operation.In a statement, Mr Lloyd said: \"I have always said that I would make my decision once the evidence was received and assessed.\"It is now clear that the G4S framework contract through Lincolnshire Police was not suitable for the unique position of the three forces.\"But he added that outsourcing to other companies would still be considered.Mr Lloyd said: \"I am already in discussion with other market providers and will continue to talk with G4S about how they can assist policing support services in Hertfordshire. My clear position is that all elements of support work will be considered for outsourcing or other use of the market.\"I made my decision based on evidence and on the recommendations from the Chief Constables. I still believe that substantial elements of policing support services will be best delivered by the private sector and will ensure that this option is immediately pursued.\"We will now move forward looking at organisational support services, as before.\"Police and Crime Commissioner for Bedfordshire, Olly Martins, said: \"The concerns that I had about this proposal are on record but I am pleased that following the evaluation and subsequent discussions, the three Police and Crime Commissioners have ended up in agreement with a shared view that this contract does not deliver what we need.\"However, we do still have to save money. Strengthening the ways in which we collaborate with Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire is a crucial element of our on-going investment in all our police services.\"I now look forward to working with my fellow commissioners to develop new and innovative ways in which we can progress our collaborative approach.\"The force's Chief Constable Alf Hitchcock said: \"As an Alliance we have been working together to explore a range of options for making savings at a time when all three forces are facing significant financial challenges.\"Along with my Chief Constable colleagues in Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire and the three commissioners, we are continuing to explore other opportunities, whilst in Bedfordshire we are using the Option 10 and Lean processes to achieve savings in-house and protect front line policing.\"Kim Challis, chief executive of G4S Government and outsourcing solutions, said: \"We have put forward a compelling proposition to the police forces of Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire which would have guaranteed them savings of over \u00a3100 million over the next ten years, allowing them to meet the financial challenge of the Comprehensive Spending Review without compromising on efficiency or public safety.\"Our proposition was to operate back office services at the volume and scale required to deliver significant savings to forces, enabling them to concentrate their resources on frontline roles: it was never about replacing police officers. This has already proved to be the case in Lincolnshire, where we have a successful partnership which, in less than a year, has seen us deliver savings in running costs of around 16%.\"We continue to work with a number of signatory forces on the Lincolnshire Police contract, including Hertfordshire, to see how we can help them to generate the savings they need.\"Chief Constable Andy Bliss, of Hertfordshire Constabulary, said: \"My focus remains on continuing to fight crime and deliver a great policing service, yet dealing with the challenge of making significant savings.\"I shall be working very closely with David Lloyd, the Police and Crime Commissioner, as we now look at all possible options to ensure that we jointly maximise the efficient use of every pound spent on policing in Hertfordshire.\"PA","The Department for Transport today scrapped plans for a bidding competition for the franchise to run Great Western rail services.The competition was one of three put on hold last October in the wake of the fiasco over the flawed awarding of the West Coast Main Line franchise.Current operator First Great Western has had its contract extended until October and negotiations will start on a new two-year contract with the company, while plans for the longer term will be set out in the spring.Meanwhile, operators of the two other franchises - Thameslink, Southern &amp; Great Northern and Essex Thameside - will be offered interim two-year contracts while competitions are launched for longer-term franchises..The department will grant a 28-week extension to the current Thameslink/Great Northern franchise operated by First Capital Connect after it ends in September and negotiate on a two-year extension. The franchise competition for a seven-year contract to run the service will be resumedThe competition for the Essex Thameside franchise, currently operated by c2c, will be resumed with a revised invitation to tender for a 15-year franchise issued to existing short-listed bidders over the summer.The announcement was made in a statement to Parliament by Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin on the day of a highly critical report on the Government's handling of the \u00a35 billion West Coast Main Line franchise competition.FirstGroup was told it had won its bid to take over the franchise from Virgin Trains, but the decision was scrapped after the discovery of \"significant technical flaws\" in the way the procurement was conducted.A committee of MPs today said the Transport Department embarked on an \"ambitious, perhaps unachievable\" reform in haste, and claimed that ministers and senior officials were lied to.The DfT has estimated that the collapse of the competition and subsequent inquiries cost the taxpayer around \u00a348 million, as companies demanded compensation for the cost of submitting bids.But Mr McLoughlin today made clear that he does not envisage compensating companies involved in the three franchise competitions which were suspended last October.In a statement, the DfT said: \"In keeping with the relevant invitations to tender, which made clear that bidders are responsible for their own costs, the Secretary of State does not believe it would be appropriate to reimburse bidders.\"Today's announcement follows the publication earlier this month of the Brown Review, which found that the franchising system had made \"a major contribution\" to the rail network and should be restarted as soon as possible.Announcing his decision, Mr McLoughlin said: \"These plans mark an important step on the way to restarting the franchising programme, and while I am determined this should happen as quickly as possible we do need time to get this right.\"We have had to take some tough decisions regarding franchising, and while they may provide a challenge in the short term, I believe the lessons we have learnt will help deliver a more robust system in the future benefiting fare-payers and taxpayers alike.\"As always our priority is to ensure these changes will not impact on services or our commitment to improving the railways. Our latest step towards delivering a high-speed rail network which will link many of our major cities by a new fleet of state-of-the-art trains is testament to how we are delivering on that commitment.\"Mistakes in the award of the West Coast Main Line franchise came to light after Virgin Trains launched a legal challenge to the decision to give the new contract to First Group.Virgin has now been told it can run the service until November 2014.A Government-commissioned report led by businessman Sam Laidlaw last month gave a damning indictment of how the competition was handled.Three members of staff at the DfT were suspended over the episode.The Transport Committee said in its report today that embarking on the reform of franchising on the UK's most complex piece of railway was \"irresponsible\" and needed greater senior executive involvement and more technical expertise.\"A more direct description of what happened is that ministers and senior officials were lied to about how the outcome of the franchise competition had been reached,\" said the MPs' report.\"We cannot categorically rule out the possibility that officials manipulated the outcome of the competition not only to keep First Group in the running for as long as possible, as Mr Laidlaw suggested, but to ensure that First got the contract.\"We recommend that the DfT find a way of undertaking a full email capture, reporting to someone suitably independent, to help get to the bottom of why DfT staff discriminated against Virgin and in favour of First Group during the franchise competition.\"The committee said that money which could have been spent on transport projects had instead gone to consultants, lawyers and review teams, on work which achieved nothing, and compensated train operators for the DfT's \"incompetence\".Louise Ellman, chairman of the committee said: \"This episode revealed substantial problems of governance, assurance, policy and resources inside the Department for Transport.\"Embarking on an ambitious, perhaps unachievable, reform of franchising, in haste, on the UK's most complex piece of railway was an irresponsible decision for which ministers were ultimately responsible. This was compounded by major failures by civil servants, some of whom misled ministers.\"Many of the problems with the franchise competition, detailed in the Laidlaw report, reflect very badly on civil servants at the DfT. However, ministers approved a complex, perhaps unworkable, franchising policy at the same time as overseeing major cuts to the Department's resources. This was a recipe for failure which the DfT must learn from urgently.\"A DfT spokesman said: \"Following the collapse of the West Coast refranchising programme, the Department for Transport was subject to two independent inquiries and an internal HR investigation. These have now concluded but the disciplinary process is ongoing.\"Independent experts concluded the collapse of the West Coast franchise programme was caused by a number of failures, including inadequate planning and weak governance structure but not systematic failings in the Department. The examination of emails from key officials found no evidence that this was anything other than simple human error.\"We are putting in place measures that will prevent this embarrassing episode from happening again and the Secretary of State has given an undertaking to keep Parliament updated on costs.\"While we are currently working to minimise the impact on the taxpayer, we estimate the failure of the competition and subsequent independent inquiries is around \u00a348 million.\"PA","Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt has announced that the newly refurbished Lewisham A&amp;E unit defended by a grassroots backlash will be downgraded.But Mr Hunt said a smaller A&amp;E open 24 hours a day and with consultant cover seeing three quarters of the cases currently treated would be retained. The most serious cases would be taken to neighbouring A&amp;Es in South London.Andy Burnham, Labour health spokesman, said the decision sent\u00a0 the message that success in the NHS would be penalised.But the decision has spread confusion across the NHS about future configurations.\u00a0The fate of the A&amp;E department at Lewisham, a successful trust, is seen as\u00a0 a touchstone for closures being considered elsewhere in London and the rest of the country.The trust\u00a0 is paying the price for the failure of the neighbouring South London NHS Trust, which has run up a deficit of \u00a3153 million over the last three years.The maternity unit at Lewisham will also be downgraded to a midwife led unit. Mr Hunt announced he was accepting all the recommendations of special trust administrator, Matthew Kershaw, appointed following the failure of the South London NHS Trust, but with an amendment to his proposal that Lewisham\u2019s A&amp;E should be downgraded to an urgent care unit.Instead the A&amp;E department will be retained as a smaller, consultant-led unit, in light of recommendations from Bruce Keogh, the NHS Medical Director who warned the safety of local residents, mainly frail and elderly, in need of emergency care but not so serious as to require a blue light ambulance, would be threatened.Mr Hunt acknowledged that the amended decision would bring less financial saving and \u201cmarginally increase\u201d the financial risk. But he said this was outweighed by the clinical benefits which he claimed could save 100 lives a year.More than 25,000 protesters marched last Saturday demanding he reject plan to close the ward at Lewisham Hospital, which recently underwent a \u00a312 million revamp.\u00a0Campaigners on Saturday's march defended the \u201csuccessful and well-run\u201d hospital, claiming it was being sacrificed to prop up a failing trust nearby.But addressing parliament today, Mr Hunt announced that the A&amp;E would become a local emergency department providing care mainly to elderly and frail residents and the hospital's maternity services will become a midwife-led unit.\u00a0The closures are part of an overhaul proposed by a special administrator in response to nearby South London Healthcare NHS Trust (SLHT) going into administration after it started losing around \u00a31.3 million a week.But SLHT - which runs three hospitals in the capital and was the first NHS trust to collapse - does not have responsibility for Lewisham Hospital.Dr Louise Irvine, a local GP and chairman of the Save Lewisham Hospital campaign, said: \u201cThis decision is crazy and ill-thought-out.\"It is a big mistake and carries huge clinical risks of things going wrong for patients but also political risk.Local football club Millwall FC brought forward their FA Cup fourth round tie against Aston Villa to the night before the protest, so as not to clash with protest.Defending the move Mr Hunt said: \"There is a strong case that these proposals will lead to improved care and could save up to 100 lives a year.\u201d","Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt has announced that the newly refurbished Lewisham A&amp;E unit defended by a grassroots backlash will be downgraded.But Mr Hunt said a smaller A&amp;E open 24 hours a day and with consultant cover seeing three quarters of the cases currently treated would be retained. The most serious cases would be taken to neighbouring A&amp;Es in South London.Andy Burnham, Labour health spokesman, said the decision sent\u00a0 the message that success in the NHS would be penalised.But the decision has spread confusion across the NHS about future configurations.\u00a0The fate of the A&amp;E department at Lewisham, a successful trust, is seen as\u00a0 a touchstone for closures being considered elsewhere in London and the rest of the country.The trust\u00a0 is paying the price for the failure of the neighbouring South London NHS Trust, which has run up a deficit of \u00a3153 million over the last three years.The maternity unit at Lewisham will also be downgraded to a midwife led unit. Mr Hunt announced he was accepting all the recommendations of special trust administrator, Matthew Kershaw, appointed following the failure of the South London NHS Trust, but with an amendment to his proposal that Lewisham\u2019s A&amp;E should be downgraded to an urgent care unit.Instead the A&amp;E department will be retained as a smaller, consultant-led unit, in light of recommendations from Bruce Keogh, the NHS Medical Director who warned the safety of local residents, mainly frail and elderly, in need of emergency care but not so serious as to require a blue light ambulance, would be threatened.Mr Hunt acknowledged that the amended decision would bring less financial saving and \u201cmarginally increase\u201d the financial risk. But he said this was outweighed by the clinical benefits which he claimed could save 100 lives a year.More than 25,000 protesters marched last Saturday demanding he reject plan to close the ward at Lewisham Hospital, which recently underwent a \u00a312 million revamp.\u00a0Campaigners on Saturday's march defended the \u201csuccessful and well-run\u201d hospital, claiming it was being sacrificed to prop up a failing trust nearby.But addressing parliament today, Mr Hunt announced that the A&amp;E would become a local emergency department providing care mainly to elderly and frail residents and the hospital's maternity services will become a midwife-led unit.\u00a0The closures are part of an overhaul proposed by a special administrator in response to nearby South London Healthcare NHS Trust (SLHT) going into administration after it started losing around \u00a31.3 million a week.But SLHT - which runs three hospitals in the capital and was the first NHS trust to collapse - does not have responsibility for Lewisham Hospital.Dr Louise Irvine, a local GP and chairman of the Save Lewisham Hospital campaign, said: \u201cThis decision is crazy and ill-thought-out.\"It is a big mistake and carries huge clinical risks of things going wrong for patients but also political risk.Local football club Millwall FC brought forward their FA Cup fourth round tie against Aston Villa to the night before the protest, so as not to clash with protest.Defending the move Mr Hunt said: \"There is a strong case that these proposals will lead to improved care and could save up to 100 lives a year.\u201d","Richard Winward inherited the tenancy of Millington Hall Farm from his father.His 190 acres of prime arable land and their distinctive red brick buildings mark them out as part of the ancient Tatton estate occupying one of Cheshire\u2019s most sought after positions just 16 miles from Manchester city centre yet set in some of the county\u2019s most sumptuous countryside.But last week Mr Winward and his wife Pam woke up to find that their rural way of life could be under terminal threat. One arm of the northern extension of the Government\u2019s new high speed rail link (HS2) will hurtle at speeds of up to 225mph through the land which the Winwards have tilled for more than half a century.\u201cWe are not very big but the important thing is that we need good sized fields so that we can operate a crop rotation. If the fields are carved up, the farm will no longer be viable,\u201d explained Mr Winward, 54.The new route, whose announcement on Monday stunned locals, will piggy back on a planned \u00a3174m bypass road designed to ease congestion through neighbouring villages but which has been staunchly opposed by those living nearby and prompted a 1,400 strong lobby group against it.Even before news of HS2 the Winwards were set to lose 30 acres from their fields when bulldozers began clearing the way for the Highway Agency\u2019s new A556.\u201cThe road was very upsetting and we had to deal with that. And then we get this and it is just unbelievable. That is how I feel. It is too outrageous to even contemplate. They are determined to stick everything over this area,\u201d said Pam Winward.Millington Hall Farm is to the north west of George Osborne\u2019s sprawling constituency of Tatton, a well-heeled Tory stronghold which has been returning Conservative MPs (with the exception of one-term anti-sleaze candidate Martin Bell in 1997) since the Marquess of Salisbury was Prime Minister.Amid the hullabaloo of the announcement of the \u00a332bn infrastructure project this week the Chancellor found himself at the centre of a row in which he was accused of lobbying the Department of Transport to move the route of the proposed new rail line.It was alleged that Mr Osborne had succeeded in diverting the track away from the famous \u2018Golden Triangle\u2019 of Prestbury, Alderley Edge and Wilmslow \u2013 home to a number of Premiership footballers such as Wayne Rooney and Rio Ferdinand who have spent recent years rebuilding the country mansions of the old-money county set.Suspicion over the Chancellor\u2019s role in the selection of the route was inflamed when Cheshire East council leader Michael Jones issued a statement praising Mr Osborne and fellow Tory Edward Timpson for having \u201cfought hard to keep the line away from Knutsford and Tatton, which we have been successful in achieving.\u201dAlthough this was hastily retracted, Opposition Leader Ed Miliband pounced on the issue suggesting the Chancellor should \u201cspend more time worrying about the economy and less time worrying about how to divert high-speed rail routes away from his constituency.\u201dMr Osborne has since fiercely denied any involvement in creating the \u201cdog leg\u201d sparing the more major towns and was defended by the Prime Minister who pointed out that the track would cut straight through his constituency on its way to Manchester airport. The following day Cheshire East council issued a fresh statement insisting that the Chancellor had \u201cno say whatsoever over the proposed route\u201d.Ian Jordan, HS2 Leeds, Manchester and Heathrow project director said yesterday that the route was derived from a \u201cbalance of passenger demand, cost, engineering and the impacts on the environment and communities\u201d.Yet the national campaign group the HS2 National Alliance believes that the Department for Transport is guilty of changing the goalposts.Each mile of the new railway will cost \u00a393m with the suggested six mile detour adding more than \u00a3500m to the final cost, it points out.\u201cAll the debate about phase one (London to Birmingham) was that it had to go as straight as a die so that it could reach 225mph. Now it suddenly starts to curve and swerve around. No one will find out what the discussions were but it is certainly inconsistent,\u201d said alliance spokesman Richard Houghton.It did not help that Mr Osborne \u2013 who toured the television studios hailing the line as an \u201cengine of growth\u201d that would create thousands of jobs and bring prosperity to cities outside London \u2013 sold his constituency home near Macclesfield two years ago amid threatened boundary changes.Rail experts however pointed out that that route in its proposed form will help regenerate Crewe. It will provide scope for a future spur linking Merseyside as it snakes along past the M6 and M53 motorways en route to Manchester where it must pass through a seven and a half mile tunnel under thousands of homes before terminating at new high speed platforms at Piccadilly.When it is completed in 2032 the journey from Manchester to Euston will be cut by half to 68 minutes. But even if the Chancellor is in the clear over the allegations of manipulating the route, the current proposal is equally unlikely to earn him many friends in the affected locations.\u201cThere is a feeling that he has betrayed this area,\u201d said Mrs Winward. \u201cMy friends have been trying to sell their home here but as soon as the buyer finds out about the road they withdraw their offer,\u201d she added.Councillor Steve Wilkinson, ward member for High Legh, one of the affected villages, said HS2 could \u201cannihilate\u201d local businesses. \u201cResidents are in shock and dismay,\u201d he told the Knutsford Guardian.\u201cIt doesn\u2019t make my life any easier and we are both the same political persuasion but it doesn\u2019t make it easier for him either. I\u2019ve got a lot of questions for George Osborne and the main one is \u2018why?\u2019\u201cI don\u2019t believe this will do him any favours at the next election but that is the political risk that he has taken. It affects so many people and so many of them will be Conservative voters,\u201d he added.There are already murmurings among residents that a local candidate should come forward and stand against the Chancellor at the next general election.Chris Matthews, 61, said those that could, would vote with their feet. \u201cWe moved here from Timperley for a nice quiet retirement and to get away from suburbia \u2013 not to be within 25m of a road and now a railway. We won\u2019t live with it. We will just go,\u201d he said.One community leader, who asked not to be named, said: \u201cThis is political suicide for George Osborne to be seen to be spending all this money in his region while everywhere else is being cut.\u201dThe local Campaign to Protect Rural England, which already opposes the proposed A556 bypass, is meeting next week to discuss its view on the plan for the rail route. It is just one of a number of gatherings taking place over the coming days including those of the first action groups in Staffordshire.Alliance spokesman Mr Houghton added: \u201cIt is easy for people to wave their arms about and say we are all Nimbys but a lot of the organisations involved are not on the line.\u201cThey may be concerned about money being sucked out of the rail system or who think driving a train line through areas of outstanding natural beauty is a bad idea\u201d.","She is the most famous soldier in the new Battle of Hastings. Natalie Hynde, the daughter of The Pretenders\u2019 singer Chrissie Hynde and The Kinks\u2019 Ray Davies, was arrested along with 26 others last week after bolting herself to a tree while attempting to defend an area of ancient Sussex woodland from a new bypass linking Bexhill and Hastings.They lost that battle, but, the 30-year-old vows, the war \u201chas only just begun\u201d.Ms Hynde was one of around 100 protesters attempting to defend an area of specific scientific interest and outstanding natural beauty, which runs between Upper Wilting Farm and Crowhurst, from the bypass.\u201cThere are so many reasons to be angry, aside from the fact that they are destroying our land,\u201d explains Hynde, who grew up in north-west London and moved to Leonard\u2019s-on-Sea in Hastings two years ago, where she now works as a painter and decorator.Together with protestors who flocked from across the country to support this vulnerable pocket of countrside, she has been living at a protest site in Crowhurst for nearly two months. Before it was flattened at the end of last week, the site was decorated with bunting and fairy lights, with a communal kitchen. Protestors lived in treehouses high in the branches, as well as tents, through gale-force winds and snow. \u201cPeople thought we were mad to be living in trees in high winds. I say it\u2019s mad to sit back and watch your local area being destroyed.\u201d\u201cThis is just the beginning of the road protest movement,\u201d Hynde adds. \u201cWhat they\u2019ve done in Crowhurst has only made us stronger.\u201dThe Bexhill-to-Hastings link bypass, will cover 6km of Sussex with the \u00a393.8m bill picked up by the Government and local council. It is the first step in a nationwide programme that will see nearly \u00a3900m spent on new roads.Officially there are now 44 local and major road schemes either under construction or with plans for building to start before the end of 2014/15. But critics fear this is just the beginning, and that the true cost will be much higher.Last year, the former Conservative Transport Minister Stephen Norris and environmental campaigner Rebecca Lush Blum launched a report based on a trawl of Local Authority planning documents as well as plans outlined by the Highways Agencies and Department for Transport. It identified 191 major projects in discussion, including 76 new bypasses, 48 link roads and nine new bridges and tunnels, at a cost of more than \u00a330bn.A Government spokesperson said the Hastings to Bexhill link road would play \u201can important role in delivering growth in the area\u201d.Today, however, there was a landslide onto the railway where trees were felled at Crowhurst. For the Combe Haven Defenders, a local direct action group which Hynde joined last year, it is a sign of things to come.\u201cThis is not about winning, it\u2019s about doing what\u2019s right and not letting them walk all over us. If we let them take this land, what\u2019s next? We want a place for our children to play,\u201d Hynde says.Before beginning their action at the end of last year, there had been a long preparation period. \u201cIt\u2019s important to trust the people you\u2019re working with. Also, we had one of the country\u2019s top climbers put on a workshop were we learnt to climb trees.\u201d The number of local people who have turned out, if only to deliver food to the protesters and show solidarity, Hynde adds, has been \u201cheartening\u201d. \u201cA lot of older women who are retired have been coming down to help defend this area for future generations...Seeing middle-aged women pepper-sprayed was quite an eye opener.\u201dHynde is due in court on 12 February charged with aggravated trespass and obstructing a high-court official. Her arrest inevitably attracted more media attention than those of her fellow protesters, but she doesn\u2019t seem to mind: \u201cIf I can use who I am to bring attention to our cause then that\u2019s great.\u201dAnd in the meantime, the woman who could be the new Swampy - only with far more famous parents - remains defiant. \u201cWhat they\u2019ve done in Hastings is only the beginning. This is only the start of their plans to flatten the British countryside, and we will be there every step of the way.\u201d"]},{"x":0.325114467102533,"y":0.922221634461893,"no_docs":72,"words":[{"prob":0.000421307692002063,"word":"cent"},{"prob":1.04117539332276e-05,"word":"year"},{"prob":0.00909747952868372,"word":"shares"},{"prob":3.59184626332822e-05,"word":"group"},{"prob":0.0206335227974156,"word":"sales"},{"prob":3.68844288644889e-05,"word":"bn"},{"prob":0.0021435411388742,"word":"company"}],"docs":["European car sales plunged to a 19-year low in 2012 as the debt crisis took a heavy toll on vehicle demand.The number of cars sold in the EU fell by 8.2 per cent to 12.05 million vehicles last year, the lowest since 1993.Over-indebted banks refused to lend to consumers who are strapped for cash as severe austerity measures pushed joblessness across the bloc to a record high of 12 per cent.Sales in December were hit particularly hard, falling by 16.3 per cent to 799,407 vehicles, according to the latest figures from the ACEA European automotive association.For the year, the UK fared much better than Europe, with sales rising by 5.3 per cent. By contrast, sales in Germany declined by 2.9 per cent, while Spain dived by 13.4 per cent, France by 13.9 per cent and Italy by 19.9 per cent.Although the UK market is holding up, British-based manufacturers are feeling the squeeze in Europe, which typically accounts for about 40 per cent of its sales.Last week Honda announced it would cut 800 jobs at its plant in Swindon, although Jaguar Land Rover two days later said it would create 800 jobs in Sollihull.","The credit-checking company Experian expects to see high single-digit revenue growth in the year which ends in March after posting a 7 per cent improvement in the third quarter today, driven largely by Latin America.The group also said it expects a \"modest improvement\" in its profit margin for the year. Revenues excluding acquisitions rose by 11 per cent in Latin America and 6 per cent in the UK.","The pubs giant JD Wetherspoon reported the best growth in sales so far across the industry for the final three months of last year today but warned rising costs would eat into profit margins.Sales from pubs open at least a year rose 8 per cent and 11.3 per cent including new openings. Profit margins will be about 8.2 per cent for the half year, 1.1 per cent lower than the full year to last July.","The World Bank raised the alarm over the UK's \"sombre\" prospects today as it took an axe to growth forecasts.The organisation's latest global outlook report pencils in 1.1 per cent growth for the UK this year, well below its 1.6 per cent forecast in June last year and also below the Office for Budget Responsibility's own 1.2 per cent prediction. The consensus of latest forecasts compiled by the Treasury is even more pessimistic, at 0.9 per cent. The report's downbeat comments are likely to heighten fears of a triple-dip recession.It said: \"Prospects for the fourth quarter are sombre. Industrial production declined sharply in Germany and in the UK in October and business-sentiment indicators remain unusually weak. Despite indications of improving sentiment and order books, GDP is expected to decline further in the fourth quarter and into the first few months of 2013.\"","Lenders are finally opening their doors to first-time buyers after the biggest jump in loans for nearly three years in November, the Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) said today.Banks and building societies advanced 21,700 loans to first-time buyers worth \u00a32.7bn, an 8 per cent rise compared with October and up 24 per cent on a year earlier.They accounted for 41 per cent of loans, above the usual 38 per cent average, in signs that the Bank of England's Funding for Lending is beginning to have an impact. The CML's director general, Paul Smee, said the figures were \"encouraging\".","Britain's biggest housebuilder was on bullish form today as it unveiled plans for an extra 1,000 homes in London and said it would more than double annual profits.Barratt Developments' chief executive, Mark Clare, who has been putting the company back on firmer ground since its ill-timed \u00a32bn acquisition of Wilson Bowden in 2007, will also pay a first dividend to investors since the credit crunch later this year.The company has snapped up two major sites in London with a gross development value of \u00a3400m, in Southwark and Surrey Quays, adding to the 26,000 homes Barratt has built since setting up shop in the capital 30 years ago. Barratt has 22 sites under way in 17 boroughs.London remains particularly buoyant, but the housing market is picking up across the country. Mr Clare said: \"There are more signs of life in the mortgage market.\"Like the rest of the industry, Barratt is benefiting from the \u00a32bn it has spent on much cheaper land since the crash, which allows it to grow profits despite a slight fall in completions to 5,085 in the six months to 31 December.Pre-tax profits will be about \u00a345m for the full year, more than double the year before.","G4S, the outsourcing group at the centre of last year's Olympic security fiasco, has won a meter-reading contract with British Gas worth \u00a3150m.The FTSE 100 giant has agreed a seven-year deal with the energy supplier, which will start in April. The company already reads meters for energy providers such as Scottish Power and E.ON, and had previously run the British Gas contract with Siemens.","Rare diseases are Shire's bag and it is this expertise in life-threatening genetic illnesses that has caught the eye of rival AstraZeneca \u2013 well that is what traders would have us believe anyway.Shares in the drug maker Shire perked up 49p to 2,082p today as the rumour circulated that a potential bid could emerge from its peer AstraZeneca.AstraZeneca, down 4.5p to 3,037p, is well known to want to stock up its medicine cabinet after a series of disasters with its own drugs pipeline. Chief executive Pascal Soriot, who joined last year, is tasked with the job. This week Mr Soriot reshuffled his top-level team. The jobs of president of research and development and the global commercial executive vice-president will disappear and a post will be created to lead research and sales. The restructure of the 13-strong executive committee comes ahead of strategy presentations and the full-year results at the end of the month.Seasoned traders played down the Shire rumours and instead hinted that the water company United Utilities was a more likely target for an imminent takeover on the blue-chip index. Its shares trickled up 14.5p to 712p.The biggest riser of the day on the top-flight index was the travel group Tui Travel. It confirmed it is in talks for an all-share merger with its German parent Tui. The Takeover Panel set a 13 February deadline to announce an offer and the shares travelled up 11.1p to 292.5p.Merger mumblings excited punters, but across the wider market investors were feeling downbeat following a gloomy outlook from the World Bank. The FTSE 100 index did pick up slightly during the afternoon session, however, and ended 13.33 points lighter at 6,103.98.Angus Campbell, head of market analysis at Capital Spreads, said: \"There is also the added uncertainty looking ahead to the impending US debt ceiling negotiations. This combination sent riskier stocks such as miners lower and they have barely joined in the reversal that's been taking place in the latter part of the session, which indicates there is still nervousness when looking ahead to the coming weeks.\"Banks were one of the biggest losers of today's sell-off after the Bank of England said fresh capital could be required. Lloyds Banking Group, one of the recent star risers, declined 1.36p to 53.01p, and Barclays dipped 2p to 293.4p. Royal Bank of Scotland got a share-price target upgrade from Nomura's scribes to 270p, but they retained their reduce rating and the shares lost 4p to 350.1p.Imperial Tobacco was puffing down at the bottom of the index, off 116p to 2,368p. Analysts at Renaissance Capital retained their hold rating on the stock but today raised their share price target to 2,700p, up from 2,650p.There is nothing quite like a food scandal to put punters off their grub, and \u2013 in the case of Tesco's horsemeat debacle \u2013 off the shares too.The supermarkets giant has been found selling burgers containing horsemeat, and its shares were off the pace, falling 2.5p to 347.1p.While the meat is not dangerous, the news was met with understandable outrage. Clive Black at Shore Capital warned that Tesco is facing a huge issue of \"consumer deception and offence\".Tesco is trying to put the issue right but Mr Black points out that the damage to its reputation may be huge and the \"sell-through rate of processed meats such as beefburgers\" will be hit.On the mid-cap index, Irn-Bru owner AG Barr's shares fizzed up 1p to 501p and Robinsons and Tango maker Britvic's share price sparkled with a 1.5p gain to 421p after it was revealed that the Office of Fair Trading is now expected to make its delayed decision on the proposed \u00a31.4bn merger between the two fizzy drinks groups on 13 February.The strife-hit Finnish miner Talvivaara said its metals production has stabilised after its gypsum pond leakage but the water balance situation at the mine is still challenging and the shares sank 6.75p to 98.75p.The small-cap index and China-focused resources company Fortune Oil received a formal waiver from lenders which allows it to go ahead with the sale of its natural gas business and the shares hissed up 0.5p to 11.75p.Over on AIM, the broker Daniel Stewart Securities' chief executive, Peter Shea, snapped up 3,456,680 ordinary shares at a price of 0.55p each. He now owns around 10.76 per cent of the company. The shares jumped 0.25p to 0.88p.Chinese gas focused Green Dragon Gas said it exceeded its production goal for 2012 and its shares lifted 2.75p to 262.5p.Meanwhile the cloud video developer Forbidden Technologies reported strong sales growth and said it is likely to exceed analysts' forecasts. Its shares floated up 2.5p to 23p.","The lorries and logistics group Stobart has warned its operating performance will miss expectations this year, blaming the \"uncertain economic environment\".Stobart is to close its chilled operation but said its newest venture, the relaunch of Southend Airport, has beaten expectations for its first year, flying more than 600,000 passengers. Stobart also said its transport and distribution division, which brings in about 90 per cent of its revenues, would focus on controlling costs during January and February, the final two months in its fiscal year.","It was a day of two halves today. Pessimists were toppled by bullish traders in the afternoon, and the benchmark index hit its highest point since May 2008, taking it back to the level last seen before the collapse of Lehman Brothers. FTSE Group data show the FTSE 100 index soared 28.38 points to 6,132.36.Good jobs data from the United States and better-than-expected trading updates from US companies and UK retailers such as Home Retail Group, up 15.1p to 136.6p, helped punters to feel positive.Angus Campbell, head of market analysis at Capital Spreads, said: \"It looks like the Great Rotation out of bonds into equities that's being bandied around at the moment is in full flow as equities have defied the bears once again in today's session.\"British punters' interest in US stocks has also been apparent, the online stockbroker Interactive Investor said. It has seen a jump in interest for US stocks from its clients, and Douglas Boyce, head of share dealing at Interactive Investor, said: \"There seems to be a clear belief that the US economy is recovering, and right now our clients seem happy to overlook concerns surrounding the budget deficit.\"Mr Boyce said interest in Apple is up around 50 per cent for the week so far, after its shares price dropped earlier this week on fears over iPhone demand, while requests for US equities in general is up almost 100 per cent since the start of the year.British Airways' owner, IAG, flew to the top of the blue-chip index, soaring 8.8p to 211.8p. Investors were very glad it hasn't got any of Boeing's flagship 787 Dreamliners. The planes have been taken out of service after issues with a Japanese model.Sales were booming at Primark and Twinings owner ABF and the shares climbed 50p to 1,606p.The publisher and events business Reed Elsevier flogged the screening division of its LexisNexis risk solutions business to a private-equity group, and UBS's scribes think the deal could have raised up to $300m (\u00a3187m). UBS's analysts think Reed will plough the cash into share buybacks. Reed's shares booked in a 9.5p gain to 678.5p.Banks were still in focus, and the ratings agency Fitch said the safeguards of an \"electric\" ring fence and \"sibling\" structure for UK retail banks could actually \"make the separation from the rest of a banking group more effective and benefit the credit profile of the retail bank\". Barclays rose 2.65p to 296.05p and Royal Bank of Scotland was up 3.7p to 353.8p, but Lloyds Banking Group lost 0.27p to 53.28p.Investors in the property company Hammerson are breathing a sigh of relief after the Brent Cross-owner kissed and made up with its bitter Australian rival Westfield. Westfield, which already owns and runs giant malls in the east and west of London, had been planning a huge new scheme in Croydon. At the same time, Hammerson had been buying up assets in the town and planned its own version of a shopper's paradise. The two squared up and spent the past year trying to insist they would be the best to build a \u00a31bn scheme. The news that the two are at peace sent Hammerson's shares up 4.9p to 487.7p. Jefferies' property guru, Mike Prew, views their plans as a \"very sensible compromise to redevelop the centre\". Mr Prew gives Hammerson a hold rating with a share price target of 482.8p. The insurance group Aviva is selling its 49 per cent share in its Malaysian business to Sun Life for \u00a3152m, and the shares edged down 0.1p to 368p.Over on the mid-tier index, the cash-and-carry business Booker reported a rise in sales, but its shares only edged forward 0.2p to 98.9p.The lorry-spotters' favourite, Stobart Group, warned that its full-year operating performance would be slightly below market expectations, and the shares motored down 2.5p to 92.55p.The Tanzania-focused gold company African Barrick Gold, which had been a takeover target for China National Gold until talks collapsed earlier this month, posted a 9 per cent drop in annual production. But it had witnessed a pick-up in the fourth quarter. African Barrick put on 1.5p to 350p.On AIM, Quadrise Fuels updated on its progress on producing shipping fuel and the shares gushed up 1.12p to 13p.Lansdowne Oil said it continues to progress farm-out talks with interested parties and its shares jetted up 1.25p to 54.25p.Nature Group, the maritime and off-shore waste specialist, has won a contract in Tanzania and its shares ticked up 3p to 24p.","With a number of trading statements now in, it seems the nation's pub companies had a rather merry Christmas. Sales have done well, even in austerity Britain. Some of the better-run businesses in the sector have been suggesting they have an opportunity in the present economic climate.Although they're suffering from the supermarkets' alcohol promotions \u2013 drinkers stay at home with a tinny rather than buy a pint at the pub \u2013 they've been banking on Britons trading down from posher restaurants and sitting down for a meal at the local instead. And this appears to be happening. It has translated into some good sales numbers across the sector among those which have reported so far.But costs, particularly when it comes to utilities and the sector's real bugbear, tax, are on the rise, which investors have to bear in mind. This could be seen in the recent trading statement from JD\u2009Wetherspoon, and what you make of it depends on whether your glass is half full or half empty.When I last looked at the sector in the middle of September the company was riding the crest of the Olympic and Paralympic waves, having won big from screening events from the summer's big sporting hits.But I was concerned this was a one-off and shares had enjoyed an undue uprating. So I said take profits at 476p. Oops. The shares are a shade ahead of that now. But \u2013 and it is a big but \u2013 the group's recent trading statement was a worry.Sales were good, very good, 8 per cent higher over the 11 weeks to 13 January. That's from outlets open at least a year.But there's a catch. Wetherspoon's makes much of its value proposition. It has been known to offer beer and a burger for just over a fiver. When you do that your margins are going to be thin, and they're going to suffer in the event of unexpected costs. The company has complained about the higher-than-expected hikes in what it pays for utilities, staff and supplies. Marketing costs also rose, and so did the tax bill. So margins have been squeezed, which will hit earnings.I'm increasingly coming to the view that I may have been too bearish on this sector. There could be value to be had, because it does seem people are trading down from posher places in favour of a pie and a pint at the pub. And pubs are increasingly making good money from their food offerings.That said, if I were to invest in Wetherspoon's \u2013 which trades on 12 times forecast earnings for the year ending 31 July while yielding only just above 2 per cent \u2013 I'd want a bit more value from the shares. The sort of value you'd get if the stock eased down to 450p.I've less concern about Greene King, another firm that reported healthy sales. Total sales in Greene King Retail grew 9.5 per cent in the 36 weeks to 6 January, with sales in outlets open at least a year up 3.7 per cent. It's true this fell to 2.8 per cent in the final six weeks of the year, after an 8.8 per cent boom in the comparative period of 2011. But it's still a creditable performance.The company reassured on beer sales and the performance of tenanted pubs too. The shares trade on 11.6 times earnings for the year ending 30 April, offering a respectable prospective yield of 4 per cent.When I last looked at the sector I said Greene King would be the one to hold for people looking to invest in it. But, in the interests of full disclosure, I suggested it might be a good time to cash in with the shares at 592p. Now they're above 660p. If you stayed put, you'll be very happy. And having seen these results I'm beginning to think that there could be more to come. Debt is being paid down too, which is sensible. Keep holding Greene King. It's on a roll, offering customers food they can afford to eat out with decent beer (Old Speckled Hen and the rest).Spirit emerged from Punch Pubs, the biggest casualty of the sector's mad addiction to debt financing. I've had a downer on the company for a long time but things do appear to be looking up. For the first 20 weeks of its financial year, sales at outlets open at least a year increased by 2.3 per cent, with food up 3.3 per cent, although drink scraped ahead by just 0.2 per cent.The previous year saw a 7 per cent rise, so it was always going to be tough to match that, and Spirit did at least reassure it will meet expectations. It further said leased pubs should break even by the end of the year, with unprofitable outlets sold off.Time to reassess? I admit to missing the best of this one. The shares have been picking up speed, but still aren't over-priced at 10 times forecast earnings for the year ending 31 July, while offering a prospective yield of 3 per cent. The business looks to be reviving. So, even after a good run, I make the shares (gulp) a speculative buy. I'll update on the rest of the sector after the next batch of trading reports have been released.","UK car production hit a four-year high last year as car exports reached a new record, defying the deep slump in European vehicle sales, according to research.British factories built 1.46 million cars last year, of which 1.21 million were exported, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. Production was up 9 per cent and exports by 8 per cent, even though car sales in the EU hit a 17-year low. About half of Britain's exports go outside Europe, where strong demand from countries such as China, Russia and America helped to offset the weakness on the Continent.\"The outlook for this year remains positive, with demand in many faster-growing global markets offsetting the continued weaknesses in European economies,\" the SMMT said.","Investors are taking risks because they are fed up with buying government debt, according to the chief executive of Aberdeen Asset Management, Martin Gilbert.He said his customers poured money into Asian and emerging-market equities during the last three months of last year in a protest against poor returns from safer, fixed-income products.\"You're losing money before you even start with the yields out there,\" Mr Gilbert said. \"If you take too much notice of the macro environment, you can miss some good opportunities.\"Aberdeen's assets under management rose to \u00a3193.4 bn in the fourth quarter, from \u00a3187.2bn at the end of September. It won \u00a310.8bn of new business.","Two of America's biggest financial beasts were hit by a series of one-off legal charges in the fourth quarter, with the bottom line at Citigroup and Bank of America suffering as a result.In Citi's case, net income for the final three months of 2012 came in at $1.2bn (\u00a3748m), as the bank absorbed more than a billion dollars in legal and other costs. More than $300m of that was connected to a deal with regulators over improper foreclosures.Michael Corbat, the chief executive, who plans to cut 11,000 jobs to make the business leaner and less risky, said: \"Our bottom line earnings reflect an environment that remains challenging \u2013 with businesses working through issues like spread compression and regulatory changes \u2013 as well as the costs of putting legacy issues behind us.\"At Bank of America, the cost of settlements related to claims over its mortgage business drove its net income down to $732m, against $2bn in the same period in 2011.Although its underlying performance showed signs of improvement, with the bank beating market expectations, some $5bn in previously announced mortgage-related charges pushed down its figures.\"We addressed significant legacy issues in 2012 and our strengths are coming through,\" the bank's chief financial officer, Bruce Thompson, said."," Dixons Retail, the owner of Currys and PC World, was a rare shaft of light from the retail world today, pushing up sales 8 per cent thanks to Comet's demise. You can't argue with selling five tablets every second.OutlookBut before Sebastian James and the rest of the management team pat themselves too hard on the back, investors should take a look at the margins, down 0.5 per cent despite the collapse of its biggest rival.I'm getting uncomfortable d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu here. The broker KBC Peel Hunt once said of ill-fated HMV: \"For the coming year, we believe the group can deliver material sales and profits benefits from the collapse of Woolworths and Zavvi.\"Look what happened there. Just because you're the last man standing, it doesn't mean you're safe.","Drilling for North Sea oil and gas took off last year, as a resurgence in the UK continental shelf pushed up the number of new exploration and appraisal wells by a third.A total of 65 wells were drilled in 2012, up from 49 the year before, as government tax breaks in last year's budget fuelled the revival in the UK section of the North Sea, according to Deloitte.Graham Sadler, managing director of Deloitte's petroleum services group, said: \"After several years of caution and uncertainty, we have a more positive environment, where tax incentives, the high oil price and appetite to invest have combined to make 2012 the most encouraging year for a long time.\"The number of North Sea deals also jumped, rising by 30 per cent to 80 last year, according to Deloitte. These were split evenly between outright purchases of oil and gas fields and so-called farm-ins, where a company injects cash into an existing field to help fund its development.This week, the headhunter Oil and Gas People forecast that up to 50,000 jobs would be created in Britain's oil and gas industry this year, on the back of the record \u00a340bn of investment due to be ploughed into the shelf over the next three years.In October the Department of Energy and Climate Change awarded a record 167 new licences on 330 North Sea blocks. Although North Sea production will probably never return to its peak output in 1999, when it produced 4.5 million barrels a day, the expansion should help lift it from last year's level of about 2 million."," Is it time to stock up on shotguns, baked beans and bottled water, and prepare to ride out the coming apocalypse? Efforts to salvage growth by printing hundreds of billions of pounds have raised hackles among plenty of experts worried about rampant inflation. But comparatively few are saying we need to hunker down and prepare for a Mad Max-style future.OutlookMedieval witch trials, Robespierre's reign of terror and the emergence of punk aren't the usual fare of City economists, which is why I'll miss Dylan Grice, an economist at Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale's global strategy unit, who is off to join an investment fund.Mr Grice takes a long-run view, and by long-run I mean about 2,000 years. But the general thrust of his presentation \u2013 entitled First, We Kill All Economists... \u2013 this week was perfectly simple: when money breaks down, society breaks down. He is also scathing about the apparent total confidence with which the current generation of central bankers, our own Sir Mervyn King and the US Federal Reserve's Ben Bernanke among them, believe in their ability to control inflation.With most economists, you get graphs of GDP growth or retail sales. Not Mr Grice: he links Diocletian's third-century persecution of the Christians to the dramatic plunge in the silver content of the Roman denarius. He also maps out a huge spike in inflation in 16th and 17th-century England, with a jump in witch trials. Even the Sex Pistols and the rise of punk are thrown in as a result of the UK's own nasty 1970s inflation bout. His point is that when you print money, there are winners and losers. The Bank of England's own assessment of quantitative easing last year, which showed richer people benefiting more from rising asset values (because they have more assets), underlines this. Mr Grice is worried about a divided society of winners \u2013 \"the guys at the front of the room\", in his phrase, being subsided by the losers at the back.Is he right to be worried? Britain definitely feels like an angrier place, particularly if you're a banker hiding from Occupy. As for persecuting minorities, I don't think we're quite there yet. The number of racist incidents recorded by the police in England and Wales actually fell 8 per cent to 47,678 in 2011-12. But generational tensions are simmering as one in five young people struggles for a job, and there is something disturbing about the current political rhetoric of \"workers vs shirkers\" as we chop benefits for the working poor.On the other hand, what would Britain look like without the unprecedented stimulus pumped in by the Bank of England? Probably a much deeper recession and well over 3 million unemployed. That really might be survivalist territory. Perhaps Mr Grice should cut Sir Mervyn et al some slack.","Rio Tinto's shareholders have welcomed the promotion of Sam Walsh, the miner's iron ore chief executive, to the top job following the sudden resignation today of Tom Albanese after five years at the helm and two decades with the company.But shareholders were disappointed by the $14bn (\u00a39bn) worth of writedowns Rio announced alongside Mr Albanese's resignation, as the FTSE 100 miner took another major charge against its beleaguered Alcan aluminium business as well as a hit on its coal operation in Mozambique.\"We knew there would be a further writedown but this is certainly larger than we had expected. Tom Albanese definitely had to go because he is closely associated with the Alcan deal and has taken full responsibility for the Mozambican coal business,\" Charles Stanley's analyst Tom Gidley-Kitchin said.Today's writedowns came less than a year after Rio cut by $8.9bn the value of Alcan, the Canadian aluminium giant Mr Albanese bought at the top of the market in 2007, just two months into his five-year reign as chief executive. It has been hammered by rising costs and falling prices.Analysts welcomed the promotion of Mr Walsh, an avid collector of antique milk jugs who joined Rio Tinto in 1991 after 20 years in the car industry at General Motors and Nissan Australia. Now 63, Mr Walsh has spent the last eight years of his 21-year stint at Rio running its key iron ore unit.\"It makes a lot of sense that Sam Walsh should run Rio after running the most successful part of the business \u2013 iron ore accounted for about three-quarters of the group's operating profit last year,\" Mr Gidley-Kitchin said.Kate Craig, an analyst at Liberum Capital, added: \"Rio appears to be taking the front foot on the writedowns, launching management changes and cost-cutting before the market has asked for it. Sam Walsh is the logical replacement for Albanese and has a strong operational heritage.\"Shareholders are hoping that the top-level management change will herald a new era at Rio, in which it keeps a much tighter grip on both operating and developing costs and gives greater consideration to the prospect of handing cash back to investors rather than automatically investing it.\"Given the mixed track record the group has on capital allocation, we expect the writedowns and management change to herald a welcome period of greater discipline, both in terms of M&amp;A [mergers and acquisitions] and capital expenditure,\" Jonathan Jackson at Killik &amp; Co said.Mr Gidley-Kitchin added: \"The changes are consistent with the picture that is emerging at Rio of a company that is taking a more hard-nosed approach to running a business and capital expenditure.\"He pointed to Rio's announcement in November that it planned to cut spending by $7bn over the next two years as the first significant example of its emerging tougher line. Analysts said that achieving those \"aggressive\" cost cuts will present Mr Walsh with one of his biggest challenges.As part of his drive to contain costs, he will have to keep a tight grip on three key projects that are in development. These include Riversdale, the fledgling Mozambique-focused coal business it bought in 2011, which Rio announced the $3bn writedown against as the cost of developing supporting infrastructure spiralled and estimates of its recoverable reserves had to be written down.The other two \u2013 the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea and the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia \u2013 have already shown the potential to go significantly over budget, analysts said. Mr Albanese, who received a $1.6m bonus in 2010, waived his bonus for 2011 as retribution for the first big writedown of Alcan. Today, he forwent his bonus for 2012, along with \u00a312.3m-worth of outstanding long-term incentive plans.Mr Walsh will receive total pay, including bonuses, of up to A$7.8bn (\u00a35.1bn). Shares in Rio initially fell 5 per cent but ended down 0.5 per cent at 3,439.5p as the management change balanced out the writedown.","Shoppers snapped up Key Boom Boards from the Early Learning Centre this Christmas, but it wasn't enough to save owner Mothercare from another steep fall in sales.The music station \u2013 which allows youngsters to sing, drum and DJ \u2013 was a rare success for the retailer, whose UK stores open for at least a year saw sales slide 5.9 per cent.Mothercare signed up Jools Oliver to design the Little Bird clothing range last year but chief executive Simon Calver said the new season will see a bigger emphasis on value ranges.Despite the sales slump, Mr Calver insists that his transformation plan is on track.The group's UK business now operates from 269 stores compared with 311 a year ago as loss-making outlets are closed.Mothercare is shifting focus abroad, where it now operates 1,129 stores throughout 61 countries and is aiming to grow retail space by around 15 per cent a year.In contrast to the UK, the international business is growing sales at a double-digit pace, although stronger markets such as Russia and Turkey are dragged back by weaker sales in Europe. Online sales grew sluggishly, up by 0.9 per cent.","Struggling Croydon is to be \"returned to its former glory\" by a \u00a31bn plan to build Britain's biggest shopping centre.The giant, 2.2 million sq ft mall is set to be open in Croydon's town centre before the end of the decade after a landmark agreement between London's two most powerful retail developers.The scheme will combine the two existing malls in Croydon \u2013 The Whitgift Centre and Centrale \u2013 in one huge new scheme that will overtake Gateshead's MetroCentre to be the biggest in the country.The deal between the Australian developers Westfield and Hammerson, the property group that owns Brent Cross in north London, comes after a series of setbacks for what was once one of London's wealthiest suburbs and is still its biggest borough with a population of 363,000.The town centre was scarred by some of the worst of the riots of summer 2011 when the destruction of the House of Reeves furniture store became an emblem of the outbreak of violent unrest. Several major retailers have closed in recent years, including department store Allders, which shut in September.Last month another of the borough's biggest employers, travel insurance group Allianz Global Assistance, warned it may quit Croydon because of an exodus of middle-class residents.The agreement between Westfield and Hammerson comes after months of negotiation with the Croydon Borough Council, the charitable Whitgift Foundation, which owns the freehold of the Whitgift Centre, and leaseholders.","The online clothing retailer Asos has shrugged off the consumer downturn and eurozone crisis to report storming sales over Christmas. The surge in domestic sales at Asos, which delivers to 160 countries, was driven by its core twentysomething customers shopping more frequently, driven by lower prices on clothing and delivery charges.Asos grew its UK retail revenues by 34 per cent to \u00a335.7m over the month to 31 December, which smashed City expectations.Co-founder and chief executive Nick Robertson said: \"It was the combination of internal things and we improved the whole delivery promise.\"He added that Asos enjoyed strong sales of baroque dresses and over-sized jewellery, as well as robust demand for onesies and \"novelty\" male jumpers, such as those sporting reindeer.Shoppers were also attracted by Asos lowering its annual payment for next-day delivery by \u00a35 to \u00a39.95 for unlimited orders. The company's UK growth spurt was further helped by its reducing the prices of its clothing by up to 10 per cent in some womenswear categories. But the group's gross margins fell by 0.29 per cent, as it took a hit from the impact of VAT on the proportionately higher sales within the European Union, as opposed to orders outside the region that are not subject to the tax.Global sales rose 47 per cent but Europe was the star with sales up 65 per cent to \u00a318.4\u2009m. The shares ended up 46p at 2,700p.l Primark, the discount fashion chain, produced sales growth of 25 per cent in the last three months \u2013 a performance that owner Associated British Foods called \"outstanding\". The shares rose 50p to 1,606p.","The dude who got Gangnam Style stuck in my head for a month?No, that's Psy. PY Gerbeau \u2013 it stands for Pierre-Yves, but he's known in the red tops as the Gerbil \u2013 is the French entrepreneur who rescued the reputation of the Millennium Dome. After being parachuted in soon after the disastrous opening \u2013 his predecessor Jennifer Page was sacked after the opening night fiasco and poor attendances \u2013 PY turned it around and became chief executive of X-Leisure more than decade ago, building up a \u00a3600m portfolio including West India Quay in London's Docklands and Finchley's Great North Leisure Park.What now?The Gerbil is in the money. He's just sold a majority stake in X-Leisure, now one of the UK's biggest leisure companies, to the property giant Land Securities. When he took over at X-Leisure, it owned a snow park and leisure centre at Milton Keynes. He wasn't sure about taking on the job: \"One dome had almost ruined my health, I didn't want to do another,\" he says. But he did, and the snow site became one of the UK's most popular tourist attractions. He bought up more leisure parks and snow sites, casinos and shopping centres. Now Land Secs is paying \u00a3111.9m for the whole of the management company, which runs its 16 assets as well as a 54 per cent holding in the X-Leisure unit trust.Kerching!Yup. Mr Gerbeau had a significant stake in the management company, although he's refused to say how much he made from the deal. Still, no plans to retire to Barbados on the horizon. He's looking for a new challenge, one tougher than counting his money or enjoying life with his family. He has two kids, including one with his TV news presenter wife Kate (n\u00e9e Sanderson). \"I'd like to do another big turnaround,\" he says.Back to France?That's one place the Parisian-born entrepreneur won't be returning. He was pilloried in the French press for backing London's 2012 Olympic bid, and once described himself as \"an economic refugee from the last communist country in Europe\".","Buoyant demand for tablet devices powered better-than-expected sales at Dixons Retail's Currys and Home Retail's Argos over Christmas, but neither group sees any improvement in UK consumer spending in the year ahead.Dixons enjoyed an \"uplift\" in sales of white goods over the final four weeks of its trading period after the collapse of rival Comet, which coincided with the closure of all its 236 stores.But Dixons played down the prospect of it receiving a major boost from the other administrations of the entertainment specialist HMV and camera retailer Jessops during the last nine days, which also saw the DVD rental firm Blockbuster collapse.Dixons sold five tablet devices a second in the week before Christmas, which helped its sales in the UK jump by 8 per cent over the 12 weeks to 5 January. A storming performance in the Nordic nations helped the group's revenues rise by 3 per cent, but southern Europe's economic woes dragged sales down 8 per cent in that region.It was a similar story on tablets and white goods at Argos, which grew sales by 2.7 per cent in the 18 weeks to 5 January. This led Home Retail, which also owns the DIY chain Homebase, to upgrade its profit forecasts by about \u00a310m on the previous market consensus of \u00a373m for this financial year.Sales at Argos delivered from mobile devices rose 125 per cent, which helped internet revenues surge to account for nearly half the retailer's total.Terry Duddy, Home Retail's chief executive, said: \"It has been a consumer electronic goods Christmas strongly driven by tablets.\"However, like-for-like sales dipped by 3.9 per cent at Homebase, partly due to continued weak demand on big-ticket items.But Mr Duddy said he expects \"consumer confidence to remain subdued\", while Sebastian James, the chief executive of Dixons, commented he had \"not seen a sausage\" in terms of any uptick in spending in the sector.Home Retail cited good cash generation over Christmas, which should leave it with more than \u00a3300m on its balance sheet at the year end.","Collapsed DVD and games rental firm Blockbuster is to close 129 of its 528 stores in the coming weeks and make 760 of its 4,190 employees redundant, its administrator confirmed today.Thirty-one stores have already been put on notice of closure with a number of closing-down promotions announced.Lee Manning, of administrator Deloitte, said: \"Having reviewed the portfolio with management, the store closure plan is an inevitable consequence of having to restructure the company to a profitable core which is capable of being sold.\"We would like to thank the company's employees for their support and professionalism during this difficult time.\"We are also grateful to the customers for their continued support.\"The administrator said an employee helpline and an \"employee assistance programme\" are in place to help staff find other jobs.The firm's trading woes were blamed on competition from internet firms and digital streaming of movies and games.Blockbuster\u00a0had struggled to adapt to the changing market and rivalry from internet retailers including Netflix, Amazon's LoveFilm and iTunes, which now offers a movie rental service.The devastating impact of the internet on Britain's high street had already been laid bare with the demise of camera chain Jessops and electricals group Comet, which also cited competition from online players as a major reason for their downfall.Blockbuster's administration came just a day after music and entertainment chain HMV went under, following dismal Christmas sales.PA","Denby Pottery-owner, Hilco UK, has emerged as the frontrunner to buy HMV out of administration by the end of the month, news that will boost a high street already stricken by administrations in 2013.The music and film chain's troubles were made worse yesterday when DVD rental chain Blockbuster confirmed plans to close 129 of its 528 stores over the coming weeks.HMV collapsed on Monday when Deloitte was appointed as the 92-year-old retailer's administrator. The move put more than 4,000 jobs at risk, although HMV's 223 stores continue to trade.On Friday, Hilco was locked in talks with Deloitte which are expected to continue this week. The restructuring specialist has already managed a turnaround in sales at HMV's Canadian arm since it bought the business from the London-listed entertainment group in 2011.However, Hilco faces competition from other suitors for the UK business and the structure of any deal is likely to be complex, partly because HMV has many loss-making stores that a new owner is likely to jettison.The turnaround private equity firms, Endless and Jon Moulton's Better Capital, as well as the restructuring company Gordon Brothers are also interested in rescuing parts of HMV. Game, the video games chain, is eyeing up to 45 HMV stores, while TV presenter Jonathan Ross is rumoured to be fronting a separate bid.Game itself was acquired out of administration by Opcapita, the investor in distressed businesses, in March. It's chief executive, the US financier Henry Jackson, was the owner of the electricals chain Comet, which collapsed and shut all its 236 stores before Christmas.","Tesco will today ratchet up the pressure on the online grocer Ocado by opening its latest 'dark store' in West Sussex, creating 700 new jobs.The opening of the high-tech facility in Crawley means the grocery giant now has five dotcom-only stores, which are used to fulfil grocery orders but don't have any customers.Tesco uses a pick-in-store model for most of its online grocery business but plans to open more dark stores to service burgeoning demand for food home shopping in densely populated areas, such as around London.Inside the M25 is also the heartland of Hertfordshire-based Ocado, which has never made a pre-tax profit. Ocado grew its sales by 14.2 per cent in the six weeks to 6 January, behind Tesco's Christmas growth of 18 per cent.Barney Burgess, Tesco's chief operating officer for grocery home shopping, said: \"Dot Com stores are an increasingly important part of our service for customers.\"","Twice as many City workers expect to receive no bonus this year as did in 2012, as job losses continue apace in the UK's financial sector.The recruitment firm Astbury Martin found 22 per cent of workers in the City are not expecting any kind of bonus during 2013, up from 11 per cent last year.Mark Cameron, chief operating officer, said: \"Many more employees in the City are gloomy about their bonus prospects this year. The FSA has recently warned the chairs of bank remuneration committees that they expect 2013 pay levels to be below those of previous years. This is an unprecedented move.\"Cameron added that 44 per cent of those who work in the Square Mile cited pressure from politicians and regulators as the main reason for their lack of optimism on bonuses.In November, the Centre for Economics and Business Research scaled back its predictions for total City bonuses from \u00a32.3 billion to \u00a31.6 billion on the back of lower bank profits and higher regulatory capital demands. That compares with the peak bonus year of 2008 when a total of \u00a311.6 billion was paid out.Meanwhile, the CBI will today say that job losses in Britain's financial sector are set to continue despite firms overcoming falling business volumes to ramp up profits.The jobs cull worsened in the last three months, says the business lobby group. A 25 per cent balance of respondents also expect headcount to fall again in the current quarter.The increase in profitability at financial firms has been fuelled by widening lending and increased fees and commissions as well as lower costs, the CBI said.","Global music and film giants have thrown their weight behind a consortium led by Hilco UK, the restructuring firm that is bidding to rescue the entertainment chain HMV out of administration.Universal Music, Warner Music, Sony Pictures and 20th Century Fox, among others, want HMV to survive. They are understood to be willing to trim the prices of CDs and DVDs as well as offer the 223-store retailer more favourable credit terms to help it maintain its 92-year presence on the high street.The firms are keen to avoid being left at the mercy of the knock-down pricing policies of the big supermarkets, such as Tesco, and the online player Amazon. HMV hired Deloitte as administrator last week. This was followed by the collapse of the 528-store DVD rental firm Blockbuster UK, which already plans to shut 160 shops. The music and film industry consortium is thought to favour the bid by Hilco, which acquired HMV's Canadian operation from the UK entertainment group in 2011. Denby Pottery owner Hilco appears to be the front runner to buy HMV, and talks with Deloitte are set to continue this week.But the private equity firms Endless and Better Capital and the restructuring company Gordon Brothers are also interested in rescuing parts of HMV. The video games chain Game, owned by the distressed investor OpCapita, is eyeing up as many as 45 of HMV's stores.Deloitte continues to trade HMV's stores, although some store closures and job losses among its 4,100 staff are inevitable.Any rescue deal is likely to be complex due to the large and powerful supplier base, the fact that HMV collapsed with debts of \u00a3176.1m, and that it has a number of loss-making stores.","The Government should give the Bank of England and its incoming Governor Mark Carney a radical new mandate to get the UK economy moving again, a respected think-tank will argue today.The Ernst &amp; Young ITEM Club says Threadneedle Street's existing 2 per cent inflation target is \"not fit for purpose\" and should be replaced with a \"money GDP\" target. This would require the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to ensure the economy grows by a certain rate in cash terms each year (in other words without taking into account the impact of rises in the cost of living).In its winter 2012-13 forecast published today, the ITEM Club argues that the existing inflation targeting regime has broken down. This is because a global commodity price shock in recent years has compelled the MPC to keep monetary policy too tight to boost the ailing domestic economy while at the same time allowing monthly price rises to come in consistently above the 2 per cent target.It argues that the usual defence of the inflation target \u2013 that it is simple for the public to understand \u2013 no longer applies. \"Recent inflation target overshoots and debates about the way that inflation is measured have undermined the credibility of the inflation target\u2026There would seem to be little reason to continue to target an indicator that is very hard to measure, let alone control\" it argues.Pressure is building for a new mandate for the Bank, as the UK economy continues to stagnate five years after recession hit. Official figures released on Friday are expected to show that the economy contacted again in the final quarter of 2012.The Canadian Mr Carney floated the idea of a money GDP target, also known as a nominal GDP target, last month for economies that have already seen interest rates pushed close to zero. However, some current and former members of the MPC have given the proposals for a new mandate a mixed reception.","A mismanaged and corrupt Nigerian oil and gas industry doesn't sound like a great place to invest. A report last year commissioned by the country's oil minister in the wake of fuel protests found just that, and more than \u00a320bn was lost in the country in the last decade from oil theft and gas price fixing. So not the best country to drill for oil perhaps? begs to differ.AfrenOn a quiet day for reporting in the City, investors will focus on the hunt for African oil. Mid-cap index oil explorer Afren will update on trading.It has been stepping up oil production offshore from Nigeria, and investors will want to know how this is going. But punters have been concerned about its operations in Kurdistan, a risky area in which to operate that has been hit by political quarrels over the export of oil. Despite this, Morgan Stanley rates the stock overweight, or buy, and earlier this month raised its target price to 220p.The oil sector has been the subject of bid rumours for months, with BG Group said to be a target, and some deal-hungry advisers have also mentioned Afren as a possible recipient of interest. But for now the group will be concentrating on stepping up production volumes and adding cash to its pile, which stood at more than $780m (\u00a3487m) in November.Results/Updates: City of London Investment Group.TomorrowLondon's stock exchange might seem a funny place for a Mexican silver miner. But happily nestles in the benchmark index alongside Russians, Kazakhs, South Africans and Ukrainians. Tomorrow it will reveal its fourth-quarter output. Its shares were this month hit by a fall in the silver price, and analysts at UBS cut their rating of the stock. But the silver price picked up last week and experts suggest the global economic outlook should push the it up further. Fresnillo has previously said it is on track for an annual output of 41 million ounces.FresnilloBetter economic conditions have been helping beer maker too. Analysts at Berenberg Bank expect sales growth will \"probably continue to be robust\" at around 5 per cent.SABMillerResults/Updates: Cairn Energy, Optos.WednesdayInvestors were unsettled when those cads at the Office of Fair Trading decided last week that they needed a bit longer to look at and \u00a31.4bn merger. Did the OFT have a particularly heavy new year? Maybe it should have stuck to Irn-Bru. Rather than decide by the end of the month, it now has until 13 February. Britvic will report on its first-quarter trade, and investors will be hoping the pain caused by its Fruit Shoot recall and the wet summer will be behind it.BritvicAG Barr'sResults/Updates: Abcam, BHP Billiton, Biome Technologies, Close Brothers, Findel, Hochschild Mining, Land Securities, Sage, WH Smith, Unilever.ThursdayDefence contractor has been through it all \u2013 a collapse in demand, a new chief executive, takeover talks that came to nothing and a share price that has been consistently travelling in the wrong direction. New broom Mark Papworth, who joined in October, will present his strategic plan at the results on Thursday. Shareholders are hoping for better news in 2013.ChemringSome traders still think Chemring could be a takeover target \u2013 Carlyle walked away in November \u2013 but any new suitor will wait until after the results. Analysts at Investec Securities reckon underlying pre-tax profit will have slumped 41 per cent to \u00a370.8m in the latest two-month trading period. But the market knows the numbers will be bad, so it will be all about what Mr Papworth has to say. UBS analysts call it an \"exciting restructuring story\", and rate the shares a buy with a 360p share price target.Results/Updates: APR Energy, easyjet, Emis, Fuller Smith &amp; Turner, First Group, Carphone Warehouse, Invensys, London Mining, London Stock Exchange, Paypoint, St James's Place.FridayThere is a new boss and a new strategy at mining giant . Chief executive Mark Cutifani will start in April but Anglo has already embarked on a plan. It has outlined ideas for a strategic review of its South African platinum mines. Analysts at HSBC described the move as \"a pragmatic, detailed and courageous plan.\" The group will update on production on Friday, and some analysts think it could be time to buy the shares as they lost more than 7 per cent last week.Anglo AmericanResults/Updates: Brooks Macdonald, William Hill.Economics DiaryTodayCBI.TomorrowUK public-sector borrowing, CBI trends \u2013 total orders, selling prices, CBI Business Optimism Survey.WednesdayWorld Economic Forum annual meeting, unemployment data, average earnings, Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee.ThursdayBritish Bankers' Association house purchase loans, CBI reported sales, US unemployment claims.FridayUK fourth-quarter GDP.","TodayArriving at the airport to board a flight fills most people with dread. The weighing of the suitcase and the scramble to wear as many of the clothes you need for the trip as possible to not weigh down your tiny carry-on case is a ritual that most wish they didn't have to go through. Why do we? Because the flights are so darn cheap.RyanairRyanair reveals its third-quarter update today, and it follows budget airline rival Easyjet's 9.2 per cent quarterly sales rise .Ryanair is trying to get clearance from the European Union for its takeover of Aer Lingus, and the regulators have extended their deadline until 6 March. Liberum Capital scribes think Ryanair will benefit from the troubles of other weaker players in Europe, and they rate it a buy with a share price target of \u20ac6.Results/Updates: Seagate Technology, Amino Technologies, Porvair, SThree, Cranswick, Mitie.TomorrowThe next instalment of the battle of the City skyscraper continues tomorrow. The property company is building its tower, the Cheesegrater (officially known as the Leadenhall Building), and after securing Aon and Amlin as pre-lettings it is now more than half full. But last week, rival Land Securities announced its Walkie Talkie (20 Fenchurch Street) development is now also more than 50 per cent let, and both will be finished next year.British LandBritish Land will release its third-quarter update tomorrow, and skyscrapers aside, Investec's Alan Carter prefers British Land to Land Securities, as he likes its \"superior retail and lower risk strategy\". He rates it a buy with a 600p price target.Results/Updates: Mattioli Woods, NWF, PZ Cussons, Aquarius Platinum, Carpetright, William Hill.WednesdayThe water group has been the subject of takeover rumours for months, but traders have been getting thirsty waiting for any bid to emerge. Will the market ease off the takeover speculation on Wednesday, when it will update the City with a trading statement? Recently Bank of America Merrill Lynch upgraded the stock to neutral and gave it a share price target of 740p.United UtilitiesThe group, which provides water and sewage services in the north-west of England, has recently agreed with the regulator Ofwat on changes to the way water rates are set, and analysts expect its results to be in-line with expectations.Results/Updates: Renishaw, Safestore, Antofagasta, Polymetal International.ThursdayThe City has been waiting for the pharmaceutical giant to start its spending spree ever since chief executive Pascal Soriot axed the share buybacks last October, shortly after he arrived at the group. The move was regarded as a signal that the cash pot would be used to fill up its medicine cabinet.AstraZenecaMr Soriot has been reorganising the business, and earlier this month restructured the research team. But so far nothing has happened on the takeover front. AstraZeneca will release its full-year results on Thursday, and analysts at Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale rate the stock a sell, with a 2,675p share price target.Results/Updates: British Sky Broadcasting, Diageo, Haynes Publishing, Rank, Royal Dutch Shell, Air Partner, Babcock International, Brewin Dolphin, Enterprise Inns, Euromoney Institutional Investor, Great Portland Estates, Hansa Trust, Investec, Kazakhmys, Kcom, Mitchells &amp; Butlers, Titon, Vedanta Resources.FridayWe finish the week with something sweeter. Sweet-toothed analysts at Berenberg Bank rate the sweetener specialist a buy ahead of its trading statement on Friday. Investors have been concerned about sweetener pricing, but Berenberg thinks there is plenty of growth for 2013, and gave it a 950p share price target.Tate &amp; LyleResults/Updates: BT, Electrocomponents.Economics DiaryTodayHometrack housing survey, Nationwide house prices dataTomorrowGermany's GfK Consumer Sentiment surveyWednesdayNet consumer credit figures, M4 money supply figures, Mortgage approvals dataThursdayUK GfK Consumer confidence survey for JanuaryFridayUK Purchasing Managers' Index - manufacturing","Advertising and marketing agencies can expect to see a boom in mergers and acquisitions this year as big holding groups step up their acquisition efforts, especially in digital and social media.That's the verdict of a string of City firms, led by the corporate advisory boutique Clarity, which has found that the number of agency buyouts has soared.The \"Big Six\" marketing and communications groups, which include WPP, Publicis and Omnicom, bought at least 107 agencies globally in 2012 \u2013 sharply up from 54 in 2010 and 98 in 2011.The biggest takeover in Britain last year was the \u00a33.2bn purchase of Aegis by Japan's Dentsu, but there was a series of other deals, including the sale of Adam &amp; Eve to Omnicom, BBH to Publicis and AKQA to WPP.\"We expect this level of activity to continue,\" said Marcus Anselm, partner at Clarity, who described this trend of big groups using acquisitions as a means to hire talent as \"acquahire\".Mr Anselm cited the sale of Adam &amp; Eve, on which he advised, as an example. Omnicom has used the agency, famed for its hit John Lewis ads, to inject energy into its existing subsidiary DDB, by merging them to form Adam &amp; Eve/DDB.More than 90 per cent of takeovers in the sector last year were for companies with a value below \u00a330m and around 70 per cent were in digital, according to the broker Brewin Dolphin.Pressure on big groups to increase online revenue is a key driver. \"Given the presence of numerous small players in this sector, we expect the market to consolidate fast,\" said Nicla di Palma of Brewin Dolphin.Espirito Santo bank expects more M&amp;A as valuations are \"soft\" because of the weak UK economy.\"We see this environment as particularly favourable for unleveraged and acquisitive companies such as the advertising agencies,\" said the analyst Giasone Salati.","Charles Gurassa has emerged as the leading internal contender to replace easyJet chairman Sir Mike Rake after the airline's founder and top shareholder, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, signalled he is likely to give his blessing.A source close to Sir Stelios said relations with Mr Gurassa, deputy chairman since 2011, have always been civil and cordial \u2013 unlike with Sir Mike, who has been chairman for three years.The easyJet founder voted against the re-election of Sir Mike at last year's annual meeting but did not oppose that of Mr Gurassa, a former boss at TUI Travel and Thomson Holidays.Sir Stelios no longer runs the low-cost airline, now Britain's biggest, but wields influence through his family's near-37 per cent stake. He has fought plans to place a big order for new aircraft over fears it would be a financial risk. He has threatened to sell his entire shareholding, and recently dumped 1 per cent.News that Sir Mike is quitting leaked at the weekend. Sir Stelios believes a new chairman must devote a large amount of time to easyJet, which is poised to enter the FTSE 100 index this spring after stellar growth.Sir Mike juggles the chairmanship of BT and deputy chairmanship of Barclays, both FTSE 100 firms.","Fresh signs have emerged that the British economy is \"flatlining\", giving more ammunition to the incoming Bank of England Governor, Mark Carney, who declared at the weekend that much more could be done to stimulate growth.Deloitte's quarterly survey of consumers showed a net balance of minus 33 per cent of those surveyed feeling positive about their disposable income \u2013 only marginally better than the minus 39 per cent seen a year earlier.Worries about issues such as job security, personal debt and children's education all increased.Meanwhile, the independent property analyst HomeTrack found house prices were flat in January. New buyer registrations and property listings both fell, although the \"lack of supply is acting as a support to pricing levels\".It comes as Mr Carney, who takes over at the Bank of England in July, told the World Economic Forum in Davos that monetary policy was far from \"maxed out\" and central banks must work harder to boost anaemic economies \u2013 even if it risks an increase in inflation.UK GDP fell 0.3 per cent in the last quarter of 2012, the fourth time in five quarters that the economy did not grow.","Britain\u2019s oldest private-equity firm, 3i, went on bid alert today as it revealed that activist investor Edward Bramson\u2019s Guernsey-based Sherborne Investors has built up a sizeable share stake since the start of the year.Bramson, a Londoner who moved to New York in 1975, grabbed effective control of F&amp;C Asset Management two years ago. He staged a boardroom coup after building up a 17% stake in the fund manager and took control without launching a\u00a0 full-scale takeover bid.3i, which has a stock market value of \u00a32.6 billion, is a far larger target than F&amp;C but has already had recent run-ins with activist investors.Last year Laxey Partners built up a small stake and demanded that 3i start selling down investments. But it withdrew its resolution at the annual meeting after veteran investment banker Simon Borrow was appointed chief executive. He immediately cut 190 jobs and closed some of 3i\u2019s furthest-flung offices across Europe.Today, 3i said it had discovered that Sherborne and its stockbroker Jefferies began trading in the private-equity firm\u2019s shares on January 2. Shares were bought and sold by both parties with the resulting 1.6% stake on Jefferies books on 22 January. 3i, which is advised by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays, said the average price for its shares in those three weeks had been 239p which is considerably above its recent trading range.Today the shares gained another 5.25p to 264.15p \u2014 a level they have not seen since August 2011. Bramson is still executive chairman of F&amp;C Asset Management but will hand over the reins to new chief executive Richard Wilson at the annual meeting in mid-March.The 3i campaign is understood to be led by Ian Brindle, a fellow Sherborne director and former chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers. Brindle has joined Bramson on a number of UK companies which he has chaired after successful boardroom coups including Elementis, Spirent and 4imprint.Last November Sherborne raised \u00a3207 million from investors saying it planned to invest in up to 30% of a UK company it considered undervalued. That would only secure it an 8% stake in 3i.3i was formed in 1945 by the UK\u2019s largest banks to provide capital for small and medium-sized companies. It became Investors In Industry and floated on the stock market in 1994.It owns or has stakes in companies ranging from Agent Provocateur to coach holiday group Shearings."," The wolves are circling around 3i in the form of corporate raider Edward Bramson and his City pals. It should make for an entertaining spat.OutlookMr Bramson is an unusual operator. He takes minority stakes in struggling companies, canvasses support among unhappy institutional shareholders and gets himself voted in as executive chairman so he can run them.It's takeover by stealth, and worked very well for him at F&amp;C Management, the fund manager. 3i will be a rather tougher nut to crack, but given F&amp;C's share price performance since Mr Bramson took control, you wouldn't bet against the City lining up behind him.Should we care? In one respect, yes. With F&amp;C, Mr Bramson drove a coach and horses through what is considered best practice when it comes to corporate governance.Sure he got results, but there are plenty of companies that will take note of the way the City allowed it to happen. They'll be saying: \"Well if he did it, why shouldn't we?\"When it comes to 3i as an institution, not so much. The company was set up under the auspices of the Bank of England after the war to provide financing to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). You know, the ones which ministers keep saying we need to pull us out of a recession that just refuses to go away.But instead of sticking to that, and making a return from it, 3i got terribly excited at the prospect of being a sort of British KKR or Blackstone, when they were busily buying up quoted companies on the cheap, loading them up with debt, and then making a fortune by floating them again.Unfortunately, it didn't work so well for 3i \"the acceptable face of private equity\". The shares have been dogs ever since.So no, it really doesn't matter all that much what happens to it.But there is a lesson here for a future government which is eyeing a privatisation of the proposed state-investment bank aimed at SMEs if (and it's a big if) it proves successful.","Britain's oldest private equity firm, 3i, is again manning the barricades after it revealed that the American corporate raider Edward Bramson's Guernsey-based Sherborne Investors had snapped up a sizeable share stake in the 67-year-old firm.Mr Bramson, 61, a Londoner who moved to New York in 1975, is a secretive investor who targets underperforming companies. His tactics are controversial because he regularly succeeds in taking control of boardrooms without launching full-scale takeover bids.Just two years ago he grabbed effective control of F&amp;C Asset Management. He staged a boardroom coup after building up a 17 per cent stake in the fund manager, managing to take control without a full-scale takeover bid. He ousted the chairman and eventually the chief executive. But since the coup F&amp;C shares have risen little more than 10 per cent.3i, which has a stock market value of \u00a32.6bn, is a much larger target than F&amp;C, but has already had a recent run-in and seen off another so-called activist investor. Last year Laxey Partners built up a small stake and demanded that 3i start selling down investments. But it withdrew its resolution before the annual meeting, following the veteran investment banker Simon Borrows' appointment as chief executive. He immediately cut 190 jobs and closed some of 3i's more far-flung offices across Europe.From its roots as a way for UK banks to provide capital to smaller companies after the end of the Second World War to its flotation on the stock market in 1994, 3i was seen as part of the backbone of the British economy. But once it was floated, with a valuation of \u00a31.5bn, the firm moved away from supporting fledgling businesses to a more profit-driven organisation. It expanded rapidly, opening offices across the globe, and backed companies from the Americas to India and Singapore.Critics claimed it began to lose its way in the late 1990s, and was increasingly left behind by more fleet-of-foot independent private equity firms which mushroomed on both sides of the Atlantic.Last summer Michael Queen, a veteran 3i man of 25 years, resigned as chief executive. Laxey Partners followed immediately with its attack, calling on the firm to halt all new investments, sell off assets and return cash to investors. It pointed out that for most of the preceding year 3i's share price had traded at between a 20 per cent to 40 per cent discount to the value of the assets it owned.These range from the lingerie chain Agent Provocateur to the fashion retailer Hobbs and restaurants chain Giraffe in the UK and Phibro Animal Health in the US to power equipment maker Vijai Electricals in India.In the year to March 2012, 3i managed to lose its investors \u00a3656m, or a negative return on its shareholders' funds of 19.5 per cent. Total assets under management, the key measure of private equity success, fell from \u00a312.7bn to \u00a310.5bn that year.In a highly unusual move, 3i revealed it had discovered Sherborne and its stockbroker, Jefferies, began picking up shares in the private equity firm on 2 January. Shares were bought first by Sherborne and then sold to the broker, who bought even more, with the resulting 1.6 per cent stake on Jefferies' books on 22 January. That would have cost about \u00a340m.It is rare for a public company to flush out and then go public about a new shareholder on its books. Most leave it until the statutory 3 per cent stake level has been breached and made public. But in Mr Bramson's case 3i's management, using Mr Borrows' well-honed skills from his days as a top adviser on takeover bids, decided that forewarned was forearmed.3i, which is being advised by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays, said that the average price for its shares in those three weeks had been 239p, which is considerably above its recent trading range. The shares gained 7.9p to 266.8p, a level they have not seen since August 2011.Mr Bramson is still executive chairman of F&amp;C Asset Management, but will hand over the reins to new chief executive Richard Wilson at the annual meeting in mid-March. In the meantime, the 3i campaign is understood to be led by Ian Brindle, a fellow Sherborne director and a former chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr Brindle has sat alongside Mr Bramson on a number of UK companies which he has chaired following successful boardroom coups including the chemicals group Elementis, technology firm Spirent and marketing outfit 4imprint.Sherborne was founded by Mr Bramson in 1986. According to its website, it invests in \"companies which we believe have the potential to increase their profits substantially but which have underperformed for an extended period of time\".Last November Sherborne raised \u00a3207m from investors through an offering of shares in a new vehicle, Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) B, on the junior AIM stock market, saying it planned to buy up to 30 per cent of a UK company it considered undervalued.That amount would only secure it an 8 per cent stake in 3i.But Mr Bramson has some serious backers, including the insurer Aviva, which took a 19 per cent stake in Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) B, the US financial services group Ameriprise with 14 per cent, fund manager Fidelity with 7 per cent and London wealth management firm Ruffer with a 6 per cent stake.Mr Bramson and Sherborne declined to comment.Finance provider: Changing shape of 3i* 3i was formed in 1945 as the Industrial and Commercial Finance Corporation by UK banks to provide capital for small and medium companies that could not raise loans.* Became the largest supplier of growth capital to unquoted companies in the UK by the 1960s.* Renamed Investors In Industry, banks sold their shareholdings and floated on the stock market in 1994 with a value of \u00a31.5bn.* Expanded into Europe and then America and Asia in the 1990s and 2000s. Critics said it became too short-term profit driven.* Underwent cost-cutting last year after investment banker Simon Borrows became chief executive.","Wilton Fry and his telecoms team at Bank of America Merrill Lynch have hung up on their love affair with BT. Mr Fry has been a fan of the telecoms giant for more than three and a half years but that's all over now. He switched his rating of the stock to neutral from buy and gave the shares a price target of 265p.Investors duly took note and promptly dumped the shares which lost 5.9p to 246.2p \u2013 one of the benchmark index's worst performers.What has put Mr Fry off? He thinks the shares have already had a good run \u2013 they are up 43 per cent in the past 18 months \u2013 and he doesn't expect their third-quarter results on Friday to be anything outstanding. He can see no reason to expect good news and is consequently concerned about BT's growth outlook.BT's 2012 results came in below expectations and it has started to lower the guidance for the full year 2013. Mr Fry thinks this doesn't bode well for investors as consensus for revenue growth is at around 4.4 per cent less for the second half and down 4.5 per cent in the first half.BT has been cutting costs recently and reduced staff by more than 20 per cent, but the team at Merrill claim further cost cutting will be harder to achieve.In its defence, broadband sales have been helping the group, but Merrill also points out it is only 22 per cent of BT Retail's sales and the company is still losing consumer and business customers.Despite BT's appeal waning in the eyes of Merrill, analysts at Oriel Securities still think BT shares are attractive. It is on their buy list and they gave the stock a 310p target price. They think more customers will sign up for its Openreach superfast fibre broadband. BT is investing \u00a32.5bn to deliver it to two-thirds of the UK by the end of next year and Oriel thinks the earnings from this might be underestimated. Investors aren't enamoured and the shares have declined 7 per cent in three days.Joining BT as a faller was Royal Bank of Scotland. It is back under the spotlight just as its share-price rally disappeared.Analysts at Espirito Santo rated the bank a sell with a share-price target of 320p. Espirito's view follows Goldman Sachs the day before, and both join Investec's banking guru, Ian Gordon, who earlier this month decreed it was time to ditch the shares.The analysts insist it is time to get shot of the stock, just as taxpayer outrage re-emerges over this year's \u00a3250m bonus round. RBS is also about to be landed with around \u00a3500m in fines for its part in the Libor rate-rigging scandal.The shares slumped to the bottom of the FTSE 100 index, down 22p to 345.8p. Analysts are worried about how much RBS has in its piggy bank as it is \"the weakest-capitalised UK bank\", which means the looming regulations will hit it hard.The huge Libor fine payout as the bonus round arrives is bad timing and the hope of a return on the taxpayer investment remains uncertain.Espirito's banking team isn't just anti-RBS. The taxpayer's other bank, the part-owned Lloyds Banking Group, is also a sell. Lloyds was the best-performing blue-chip of 2012 but it looks like 2013 may not be so lucrative.The Espirito team thinks the bank will be \"most impacted if regulators moved to standardised credit risks\". It gives Lloyds a 48p target.The shares dipped 1.21p to 51.93p.Bullish investors were defying those who fear a sell-off is coming, and the FTSE 100 added 4.78 points to 6,339.19 \u2013 the first time that the index has surpassed 6,300 since 19 May 2008.Investors might be feeling optimistic, but those invested in a gold miner in Egypt were certainly feeling jittery. There has been unrest in the country, but production at Centamin Egypt's mines is unaffected. Even so the shares declined 3.45p to 52.9p and it found itself at the bottom of the mid-tier index.The fallout from last year's South African strikes is still being felt by diamond miner Petra Diamonds.The group has sliced its production forecasts by 7 per cent for 2013 and the shares dug down 5.8p to 114.2p. But the group has given an output target of 5 million carats by 2019 and analysts viewed the update as broadly reassuring. Canaccord Genuity's analysts think the reduced production does not change their investment case as labour relations are now stable and it rated the stock a buy with a 151p price target.Shares in AIM-listed diamond miners in Lesotho were hit by news of a police raid last week. Firestone Diamonds, down 0.88p to 3.25p, said there had been no disruption to its operations at its Liqhobong mine after the police removed computer equipment \"without a search warrant or court order\". It said it was \"not aware of any wrongdoing\".Namakwa Diamonds, which runs Kao diamond mine close by, was not involved in the investigation, but its shares dipped 0.6p to 3.12p.","The floor covering retailer Carpetright's store refurbishment programme helped drive an uplift in UK sales in its latest quarter but it suffered torrid trading in the Netherlands.The carpets market leader has modernised 122 stores and hailed the success of other \"self-help\" initiatives, such as expanding its beds offer, better logistics and improved fitting services. These helped its UK like-for-like sales rise 3.2 per cent over the 13 weeks to 26 January.","Richard Handler, the head of the investment bank Jefferies, has raked in more in annual pay for 2012 than his opposite numbers at some of Wall Street's bigger and better-known firms.Jefferies paid Mr Handler $19m (\u00a312m) for the 2012 fiscal year, according to a regulatory filing. That puts him ahead of JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon, whose paycheck was cut to $11.5m owing to the \"London Whale\" trading loss.The Wall Street Journal reported that Morgan Stanley's chief executive, James Gorman, was likely to receive less than the $10.5m he earned in 2011.","The trading woes of Morrisons have continued after Christmas, with its sales significantly trailing behind rivals Asda, Tesco and Sainsbury's.The Bradford-based grocer Morrisons suffered a 3.7 per cent fall in food and drink sales over the four weeks to 20 January, according to Kantar Worldpanel, which suggests it has lost market share to a revitalised Tesco. The UK's biggest supermarket, Tesco, grew sales by 4.1 per cent over the period, which was ahead of Sainsbury's 3.5 per cent and Asda's 1 per cent growth.But all the big four pale in comparison with the German discounter Aldi, which delivered a 34.3 per cent leap in food and drink sales, as cash-strapped shoppers continue to snap up its expanded fresh food offer.While Aldi's share of the grocery market remains small at 3.1 per cent, it is growing rapidly.","The online retailer backed by the former bosses of Marks &amp; Spencer and Tesco has bought a bike accessories website, in its latest acquisition ahead of a possible flotation this year.The Hut also unveiled a fresh fundraising that has seen the Lewis family, which founded and operates the River Island fashion chain, invest in the online business and Clive Lewis join its board.The online specialist has acquired Probikekit, which sells cycling clothing, brakes and saddlebags, for an undisclosed sum from Encore Capital. The Hut is seeking to capitalise on the cycling craze sweeping the UK, driven by the success of Sir Bradley Wiggins and Sir Chris Hoy at last summer's Olympics.Founded in 2004, the group operates 16 websites, including the entertainment specialist Zavvi. It counts Sir Stuart Rose, the former chief executive of M&amp;S, and the former head of Tesco, Sir Terry Leahy, as investors.","British Land's chief executive, Chris Grigg, has ruled out a swoop to buy back the 50 per cent stake in Broadgate, the City's biggest office estate, that it sold near the bottom of the market to Blackstone three years ago.The property giant sold the share in the \u00a33bn development around Liverpool Street station to the fund manager to help shore up its balance sheet in the wake of the financial crisis.Mr Grigg said: \"There were good reasons why we took ourselves down to 50 per cent. It was about giving us strategic room to invest in the West End developments.\"We would not typically expect to buy it back, although we expect there will be plenty of interest.\"Blackstone paid \u00a377m for the stake in Broadgate and took on \u00a3987m of debt, but its equity stake is now thought to be closer to \u00a3800m.","The Bank of England's Funding for Lending billions are unlocking the mortgage market but savers are getting their rawest deal for nearly four years as banks fatten margins, it has emerged.December figures showed an unexpected surge in mortgage loan approvals to 55,578, compared with November's 54,011, in a traditionally quieter month for the housing market.But the data also showed that the average rate paid by lenders on new savings slumped 0.2 percentage points to 2.11 per cent over the month, the lowest return since the depths of the recession in March 2009.In contrast the average rate on new mortgages dropped by much less, down 0.07 percentage points to 3.65 per cent.The Bank's FLS initiative, which allows participants access to cheap funds in return for growing their lending, is expected to see a \"significant\" boost in credit availability this year. But the Bank's executive director Andrew Bailey told MPs last week lenders had slashed deposit rates much more than mortgages and \"the jury is still out on whether we have seen as much adjustment as we ought to see\".Banks will now face new pressure over profits and bonuses.","Lamenting the tendency of his economic advisers to respond to every question with the words \"on the one hand \u2026 on the other hand\" Harry Truman famously yearned for a \"one-handed economist\". Martin Weale is probably not the sort of adviser the American president was searching for.During his 15 years as director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research Mr Weale established a reputation as a trenchant and quotable commentator. Gordon Brown was castigated for fiddling his famous Golden Rule on borrowing. \"One can already smell the fudge being cooked in Great George Street,\" remarked Mr Weale in a memorable phrase in 2002. George Osborne also earned a rebuke in the wake of his 2010 emergency budget. The new Chancellor was \"not ambitious enough\" when it came to cutting the deficit, argued the NIESR director.But since being appointed to the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee in July 2010 Mr Weale has learned to hedge his once-biting judgements. And he was a study in caution in his interview with The Independent at his wood-panelled offices in the Bank of England this week. Consider the question of whether the UK's inflation target should be replaced with a nominal GDP target to get growth going, Mark Carney, the Canadian central bank chief who will replace Sir Mervyn King as the Bank's Governor in July, floated the change in a speech in Toronto last month. So what does Mr Weale, who would find himself charged with helping to deliver such a target if he stays at the MPC for a second term, think of it?\"Whether different arrangements might appear attractive or not depends very much on the context in which you see them,\" he said. \"The US has enjoyed inflation much closer to 2 per cent than we have. For the US to be thinking of adopting something is one thing. For us to be thinking about changing the target in the aftermath of a period when inflation has been appreciably above target is a very different thing.\" It's difficult to discern a thumbs up or a thumbs down in that answer.What about quantitative easing, the Bank's \u00a3375bn asset purchasing programme designed to stimulate spending? Has money printing, as some analysts argue, lost its ability to boost the economy? It's an urgent question given that GDP contracted in the final three months of 2012 and that calls for a further fillip are multiplying. \"More than a year ago I said that I thought the Bank's central estimates of the effect of QE were at the upper limit of what I thought was likely [but] I'm certainly not saying that I think it had no impact,\" responds Mr Weale. Again, hardly an answer that serves as a model of clarity.Yet this is how most central bankers tend to speak. Knowing that traders interpret their every word, practitioners often seek refuge in blandness and equivocation.And, to be fair, Mr Weale does not hide his reservations about the potential inflationary impact of a nominal GDP target, even if he doesn't come down firmly on one side or the other.\"Suppose we were to adopt a nominal GDP target for 4 per cent per annum and suppose also that productivity didn't pick up just because the MPC tried to stimulate the economy. If it were to deliver the target inflation would pick up to 4 per cent a year. Given where we've been recently it would be very surprising if inflation expectations didn't pick up on the back of that,\" he says.He adds that Sir Mervyn was right to point last week to the danger of returning to the high inflation of the 1970s and 1980s. \"I think people would look back and say that's not an experience we would like to repeat,\" he says.Mr Weale has developed a reputation for hawkishness on the MPC. Between January and July 2011 he advocated a rise in interest rates in order to curb inflationary expectations. That all changed in October of that year when the MPC, as one, suddenly voted for \u00a375bn QE. So in hindsight was Mr Weale wrong to have pushed for higher rates in the first half of that year?\"The reason I was doing that was that I didn't think inflation would fall back to target as rapidly as our central forecast suggested. So you might say that, looking at where we are now, far from getting things wrong I got that aspect of things right,\" says Mr Weale, referring to the fact that inflation remains stubbornly above the Bank's 2 per cent target.Mr Weale is encouraged by the performance of the Treasury/Bank of England Funding for Lending scheme in boosting loan availability. But he is careful to point out that the door is not shut on more money printing by the Bank. \"I certainly wouldn't say that I see QE as parked,\" he says.Sir Mervyn's tenure at the MPC has been a contentious one, with multiple voices accusing the outgoing Governor of exhibiting autocratic tendencies. Adam Posen, a former MPC member, complained last week about the failure of the Bank's ruling Court to stand up to Sir Mervyn. Does he recognise Mr Posen's criticisms? Mr Weale is diplomatic. \"Speaking as someone who has run an organisation, you need someone who is clearly in charge and who is responsible for what goes on a day-to-day basis. That's not to say they shouldn't be open to challenge.\"So how does he think history will judge the outgoing Governor? \"The financial crisis and the way we eventually get over that will be the basis for historical judgement and so, as Zhou Enlai said about the French Revolution, it's rather too early to say.\"Mr Weale's advice for Sir Mervyn's Canadian successor is to tread carefully. \"On monetary policy, yes, you need to keep an open mind but at the same time consider all the risks.\" But Mr Weale doesn't share the view that the Governor's job, which will include oversight of financial regulation, is too big for one man to handle. \"As we know, one man \u2013 or one woman \u2013 has run the affairs of whole countries and that's more complex than just the Bank of England,\" he says. It's a fair point, but one unlikely to offer Mr Carney much comfort in the inevitable battles to come.","Apple wobbled last week, and shares in smartphone makers shuddered. The US superstar tech brand reported its lowest sales growth since 2009, and investors ran scared from Apple suppliers such as Imagination Technologies, which lost more than 5 per cent after the bad Apple news.But Morgan Stanley's scribes dispelled fears about Imagination, and the shares leapt more than 12 per cent to the top of the mid-tier index.The Hertfordshire-based group designs the graphic-processor units for the screens of smartphones but Morgan Stanley's techies reckon there are two things that punters are underestimating. They think it is time to buy the shares, and rate them overweight. They raised their price target from 450p to 570p and the shares gained 56.4p to 497.9p.The two reasons for their sudden keenness? Samsung's anticipated Galaxy S4 and the growth potential of emerging markets.Morgan Stanley's team is basing its strong enthusiasm for the stock on a hunch that Imagination has won work on Samsung's S4 smartphone. The phone is rumoured to be launching in April. Morgan Stanley said Imagination's management hinted in December that it had secured a \"design win of meaningful units at Samsung\".It bet that, should the win prove to be the Galaxy S4, there could be a 16 per cent gain in the royalties it gets from sales.But before you get carried away and rush out to buy up the shares, the team added: \"We note the company has not yet confirmed details. If we are wrong, upside to our base case would be lower.\"But S4 aside, Morgan Stanley reckons there is plenty of potential in emerging markets. It thinks Imagination's \"exposure to the Chinese smartphone market through a licence with MediaTek\", which has 44 per cent market share, is being undervalued. It adds that Imagination's current share price \"implies the market is underestimating the ramp-up\" for MediaTek sales in the next few years.In the wider market, bullish investors on the benchmark FTSE 100 index were finally stopped in their tracks after a five-day run when shock data from across the Pond suggested the US economy shrank at an annualised rate of 0.1 per cent in the fourth quarter last year. The index retreated 16.08 points to 6,323.11.Dragging the leaderboard down was the Chilean miner Antofagasta. The costs of producing copper are set to soar but the demand for the metal is flat. The group said production was up more than 10 per cent, but its weaker outlook drove down the shares by 106p to 1169p.Keeping it company was the oil services group Petrofac as news out of Italy spread to the Square Mile. A surprise profit warning from a Milanese oil and gas specialist sent shares in its global peers plummeting. The shocker for Saipem caused traders in London to dump Petrofac stock.Saipem's profit warning emerged last night after the market closed. It said last year's profits will be 10 per cent below consensus and this year's will be a staggering 50 per cent below. Peer Petrofac plunged 122p to 1,615p, and Citi's scribes said that the Saipem siren is \"likely to lead the whole sector down\".But Malcolm Graham-Wood, an analyst at VSA Capital, played down the impact on Petrofac, and even thought the dip in its share price could be time to buy. He said: \"Other service companies have suffered in the wake of this warning but it's not actually truly comparable, except maybe to Technip. Accordingly, I would take the chance to top up with a few Petrofac shares, or at least not panic out at this stage.\"The supplies distributor Bunzl was top of the table after analysts at Numis Securities rated it a buy with a share-price target of 1,505p. The shares delivered a 28p gain to 1,134p.On Tuesday night, a US judge accepted an agreement by the oil giant BP to plead guilty for its role in the Deepwater Horizon disaster. It will pay a $4bn (\u00a32.5bn) fine. Some decided now was time to suggest that BP might sell its US operations to Exxon, but most thought this was idle chatter. The shares edged up 0.25p to 475.9p.The chief executive, finance director and chairman of Quercus Publishing have upped their stakes in the publisher of Stieg Larsson's The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, and the shares rose 5p to 58p. The company warned last week that annual profits would be \"significantly below market expectations\".The AIM oil driller Bowleven's shares spiked 4.25p to 67.75p after it said it had made a \"potential\" oil discovery off the coast of Cameroon.","The UK's biggest self-storage firm counted the cost of the Chancellor's Budget raid on the industry and a falling pound as it veered into the red.George Osborne's move to impose VAT on self-storage last year saw Safestore tumble to a pre-tax loss of \u00a319.5m for the year to 31 October last year, well below the previous year's \u00a38.5m profit. A 10 per cent slide for the pound against a surging euro also dented profits from its French stores.Despite the tax blow, Safestore's occupancy rate rose to 63.9 per cent.","Austerity-stricken Spain's deepening recession failed to give the markets a reality check as sterling lost yet more ground against the euro.Spain's economy shrank 0.7 per cent between October and December, for the sixth quarter in a row of shrinking output. The latest fall meant the nation's output was 1.8 per cent lower than a year earlier.The European Commission is now likely to give Spain, blighted by 26 per cent unemployment, more leeway to hit its deficit-cutting targets.","Mothercare's Australian business has collapsed into administration after it failed to find a buyer for the baby products retailer.Mothercare Australia had been in talks with The Myer Family Company to sell the business, which has 74 stores in Australia and New Zealand, but these talks \"ended inconclusively\". In November, Mothercare, which had a 23 per cent stake in the Australian-listed company, made a provision of \u00a310.6m for the business in Australia but expects \"minimal\" impact on the group's profits.","One in five cigarettes smoked in Britain now comes from black-market or duty-free sources, losing the Government more than \u00a33bn a year, Imperial Tobacco has said.\"There has been a sharp upsurge in illegals in the last few weeks,\" an Imperial spokesman said. \"Last year, it was running at 16 per cent but, according to our most recent collection of discarded packets, that has risen to 20 per cent.\"Imperial warned that the rapid growth in black-market cigarettes across Europe meant that first-half profits this year would be down on last year's.Imperial said that in December and January it reckoned the legal cigarette market in the European Union had seen an unprecedented 7 per cent decline as cash-strapped smokers opted for illegal cigarettes or rolled their own.The company's own worldwide sales in the first quarter of its financial year were down only 1 per cent by volume and ahead by 2 per cent in revenue, reflecting successful price rises.","The Swedish fashion giant H&amp;M has posted a rise in annual profits but took a hit to its bottom line in the fourth quarter and has suffered falling underlying sales since the start of December.The world's second-biggest fashion retailer after Zara-owned Inditex also said it plans to add 325 stores in 2013, with its biggest expansion in China and the US.H&amp;M, with 2,800 stores in 48 countries, grew its profit after tax by 7 per cent to Swedish kronor 22.29bn (\u00a32.21bn) over the year to 30 November but provided no detail about its UK performance. Its chief executive, Karl-Johan Persson, said: \"H&amp;M continues to stand strong in a challenging clothing market.\" Its profits fell by 2 per cent to 6.64bn kronor in its fourth quarter. Since then like-for-like sales fell by 2 per cent in December and 5 per cent in January, analysts estimated.","Advertising is worth \u00a3100bn a year to the UK economy, far more than previously thought, according to new research.The Advertising Association said every \u00a31 of ad spend generated a return of \u00a36, and this showed that \"GDP growth follows advertising investment, not the other way around\". Its chief executive, Tim Lefroy, urged government and the private sector to invest more in advertising as a way to stimulate growth.\"Advertising is a vital enabler of the consumer economy, underpinning \u00a3100bn of GDP and playing a critical role in the high-growth digital and creative sectors,\" he said, noting that \"60 per cent of GDP is rooted in household consumption\".The report by the accountancy firm Deloitte was released ahead of a summit of advertising leaders this morning in London at which the Culture Secretary, Maria Miller, a former advertising executive, is due to speak. The Government has come under fire from many in the industry for slashing Whitehall spending on advertising in 2010.","The troubled insurance group Phoenix restructured its debt in a move that could finally pave the way for it to lift dividend payments to shareholders.The company said it planned to raise \u00a3250m in a share placing \u2013 helping it to reduce a debt burden which has constrained its growth since the costly \u00a35bn acquisition of rival Resolution back in 2007.Phoenix was originally set up by the entrepreneur Hugh Osmond, but has struggled in recent years to negotiate the economic downturn.The placing will help the company to pay off a \u00a3450m loan from Impala bank and reduce its debt to \u00a31.9bn. More importantly it will lift restrictions on the dividend it pays to shareholders, which were capped at \u00a372m last year.As part of the deal, the hedge fund Och-Ziff has agreed to buy about \u00a380m of the group's shares, equivalent to a 9.2 per cent stake.Clive Bannister, its chief executive, said: \"I am delighted to announce the re-terming of Phoenix's debt through the injection of fresh equity, and a significant increase in the dividend per share, which we believe will provide policyholders with enhanced security and deliver excellent value to shareholders.\"Och-Ziff's commitment and the support of our lending banks underlines the attractive prospects of Phoenix as a business.\"Shares in the company closed up 39p at 630p.Sources close to Phoenix said it would focus on organic growth over the next few months. The company, which owns fund manager Ignis, has been mooted as a takeover target for rivals including Aberdeen Asset Management.","Higher costs ate into Facebook's profits in the final quarter of 2012, but the social network's revenues climbed as it sold more mobile advertising.Although the results were better than expected, Facebook shares fell more than 5 per cent as a result, as investors who had bid up the stock by more than 40 per cent in the past three months booked profits in after-hours trading. The stock remains below its IPO price of $38 and closed at $31.24 last night.Mobile ad sales made up 23 per cent of Facebook's $1.33bn in revenues, up from 14 per cent in the third quarter. It shows that Mark Zuckerberg and his company are generating money from the mobile devices increasingly favoured by internet users. Overall, profits for the quarter stood at $64m, down from $302m in the same period in 2011, as Facebook's costs rose by 82 per cent.","The US has stepped in the middle of Anheuser-Busch Inbev's (ABI) $20bn (\u00a313bn) deal to buy up the Mexican brewery business Grupo Modelo, with federal lawyers filing a suit claiming the move would hit competition in the American beer market.The deal would bring together two of the most successful beer brands in the US, namely ABI's Bud Light, and Grupo Modelo's Corona Extra.ABI, which already owns half of Grupo Modelo, said it would buy up the remainder for $20.1bn, while in a related transaction that was meant to answer any anti-trust concerns on the part of American regulators, Modelo said it would sell its share of Crown Imports, a pre-existing US joint venture, to its partner, Constellation Brands.But now the Justice Department has challenged the deal.\"The department is taking this action to stop a merger between major beer brewers because it would result in less competition and higher beer prices for American consumers,\" said Bill Baer, an assistant US Attorney General. \"If ABI fully owned and controlled Modelo, ABI would be able to increase beer prices to American consumers.\"Mr Baer added that the \"attempt to fix this anti-competitive deal\" by having Modelo divest its stake in Crown was \"not sufficient\".","After five profit warnings, is it time to buy shares in oil-rig maker Lamprell? Oil expert Andrew Whittock thinks it might be. Lamprell had a rotten 2012 and so did its shareholders. The shares lost 60 per cent on the year after the five warnings but in 2013 things are looking up.The company said it is making progress with its lenders to fund future growth and is on track with new projects including its Windcarrier 2 vessel, which will be delivered this month.Mr Whittock rated the shares a buy and thinks it has \"a strong, underlying business and retains competitive advantages in many of its markets\".Some punters were already convinced \u2013 the shares gushed more than 5 per cent on the small-cap index, up 6.5p to 129p.Lamprell's shares recovered some of last year's losses earlier in January when it said it had first secured waivers on banking covenants.But after such a shocking year don't expect any quick fix \u2013 Mr Whittock is not talking about the short term and said: \"For investors prepared to look forward to 2014, we still believe Lamprell should offers significant upside.\"The benchmark FTSE 100 index edged back below the 6,300 mark as disappointing gross domestic product figures from America and some weak corporate news hit previously bullish sentiment.Volumes have been very weak but the City has had a solid month \u2013 what one trader said was the third best January on record. But the month ended as a bit of a disappointment and the FTSE 100 index edged down 46.23 points to 6276.88.Angus Campbell, head of market analysis at Capital Spreads, said: \"It's largely the banks that are suffering after some bad results from Deutsche Bank and Santander. These numbers prove that Europe's banks are far from being out of the woods.\"Royal Bank of Scotland dropped 3.9p to 343.3p and Barclays lost 1p to 301p.Broadcaster BSkyB produced strong first-half results and upped its interim dividend by 20 per cent as the shares rose 7.5 p to 817.5p.Top of the tree was Vedanta Resources, up 40p to 1,204p, as the miner revealed a 31 per cent rise in third-quarter profits. Weaker results from its metals production was offset by its energy business, Cairn India, which announced its planned start of the second phase of its Sri Lanka oil exploration.After a tough 2012 there were signs of a new start for South African platinum miner Lonmin. It took up a position at the top of the mid-tier index, rising 45p to 360p when it said that quarterly production is ahead of targets.One metal expert even thought it was time to start loving Lonmin again. Steve Shepherd, platinum analyst at JP Morgan, sent out a missive telling punters to pile into the stock.The sector has been hit by price fluctuation and production problems after strikes halted normal production for weeks last year.Mr Shepherd claims Lonmin will be the \"best performer\" of the big three platinum miners this year as it \"recovers from the shocks of last year\".He thinks it offers the \"best value proposition\" and is the most geared to rising platinum prices. As a result, he upped his rating to overweight but lowered the share-price target to 410p from 420p. Despite the business's better outlook, 29 per cent of its shareholders at its annual meeting voted against its remuneration package.The lender Paragon reported a 16.7 per cent jump in profits for the final quarter of last year but it fell 3.3p to 281.1p.Playtech, the online-betting game developer, got a boost from Simon French at Panmure Gordon. The leisure analyst thinks it is worth taking a punt on the shares and gave it a buy rating. He upped his price target to 605p because it offers \"faster growth, higher margin and lower risk exposure than its peers\". Its shares rose 5.3p to 462.9p.Sausage-maker Cranswick said its third-quarter figures are in line with expectations, and although its margins were hit by rising pork prices, things have now improved and the shares waddled up 22p to 960p.There was no toast to pub group Enterprise Inns. The shares were 8.2p lighter at 90.5p as the pubs giant admitted the January snow had cost it \u00a31.5m. Enterprise, which has 6,000 pubs, said like-for-like profits sank 4.4 per cent, or \u00a35m, in the first 17 weeks of the year.On AIM, Sirius Minerals' York Potash Project is on track after the miner submitted plans to the North York Moors National Park Authority and the shares ticked up 1.5p to 29p.","The private equity firm 3i showed how it might fend off the corporate raider Ed Bramson if he decides to take a punt at the company, as is widely expected.The company said it expects to beat cost-cutting targets this year and would focus on asset disposals over the coming months. Earlier this week, 3i revealed that Mr Bramson's Sherborne Investors had built up a sizeable stake in the company.","Deutsche Bank has reported an unexpected \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a31.84bn) loss as it slashed the value of some of its more risky assets and absorbed high legal fees.The bank, co-run by Anshu Jain, said its core performance was strong but litigation in areas such as Libor rigging had cost it \u20ac1bn. Mr Jain said 2013 looked like being a much better year, but warned restructuring was \"a journey that will take years, not months\".","Three debt-management firms have been shut in the latest crackdown on the sector by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).The watchdog cancelled the credit licences of the Lancashire-based Welcome Solutions \u2013 which trades as debtsorters.co.uk \u2013 and Debt Connect of Manchester for \"improper\" business practices. It also said Cornwall's Rowena Koning was \"not fit to operate a debt-management business\".Since the OFT's inquiry into rogue debt managers in 2010, more than 100 have exited the market or been refused licences.","AstraZeneca has admitted it faces another difficult year of falling sales in 2013 after patent expiries last year meant revenues slumped 17 per cent to \u00a327.9bn.Pascal Soriot, the new chief executive of Britain's second-biggest drug maker, was parachuted in from rival Roche last year after David Brennan quit under pressure from disappointed shareholders. Mr Soriot warned that revenues will face a \"mid-to-high single-digit percentage decline\" this year. That follows pre-tax profits for 2012 coming in 38 per cent lower than the previous year, at \u00a37.7bn.The news was even worse than City analysts had expected, and the shares fell 99.5p to 3,053p.Astra's revenue stream is drying up as some of its key drugs are having to compete against cheaper generic rivals. The blockbusters Nexium and Crestor lose the crucial United States patent protection in 2014 and 2016.","LVMH, the world's largest luxury goods group, is stepping up its global expansion plans despite fears of a slowdown in demand for its products.The Paris-based group behind Christian Dior perfumes, TAG Heuer watches and Louis Vuitton handbags, posted profits close to \u20ac6bn (\u00a35bn) for 2012, and said like-for-like sales were up 9 per cent. Bernard Arnault also outlined plans to step up expansion of its brands, saying: \"LVMH intends to further strengthen its global leadership position in high-quality products.\"Fourth-quarter sales rose 8 per cent, an improvement on the previous three months' 6 per cent, but far behind the double-digit growth that luxury brands enjoyed in previous years. Mr Arnault said the group's brands continued to gain market share globally, and its flagship Louis Vuitton label reported double-digit revenue growth during the year.","Diageo might be the world's biggest drinks company but it admitted it is struggling to turn Guinness into a lager.Guinness Black Lager, a version of the stout which gives it the fizz of lager, was launched in the US in 2011 and in Ireland last year, but sales have been \"disappointing\". There are no plans for a UK launch.Deirdre Mahlan, the chief financial officer, said: \"When people taste it they really like the liquid but you have to educate the consumer \u2026 actually finding the right trigger can sometimes take a bit of time.\"Overall sales of Guinness were down and the group lost share as it refused to cut prices in tough markets. But Diageo's huge roster of spirits were much stronger, with US drinkers in particular snapping up premium vodkas Ciroc and Ketel One. Diageo sales rose 5 per cent to \u00a36.04bn in the half year to December. Its shares rose 24p to 1,877p.","The Bank of England's pump-priming of the mortgage market fuelled some cheer for homeowners as Nationwide said average prices rose 0.5 per cent in January.The lender put the improvement down to the Bank's Funding for Lending scheme, but warned that further momentum would also depend on an improving economy.Robert Gardner, its chief economist, said: \"Progress is likely to be relatively slow on that front if recent trends are any guide, with the UK economy shrinking for the fourth time in five quarters.\"Nationwide said conditions were improving gradually for first-time buyers, although they still account for just 20,000 transactions a month, compared with the pre-crisis average of 32,000 a month.It also noted a trend towards borrowers lengthening the term of their mortgage, with 53 per cent over 25 years, up from 40 per cent in 2007.","C\u00f4te Brasserie, the French restaurants chain backed by the business tycoon Richard Caring, is to receive initial bids that value the business at \u00a3120m-plus next week.The private equity firms Equistone, Bridgepoint and LDC, among others, are expected to submit offers to acquire the fast-growing chain by the first-round deadline of 5 February.Mr Caring and other key shareholders put 37-restaurant C\u00f4te Brasserie up for sale last year by hiring advisers at Hawkpoint, the corporate finance firm, and it is thought they want to complete the process by the end of March. The sale will put down a key marker for other restaurants hoping to cash in this year on resilient demand for eating out at well-run venues.Mr Caring, C\u00f4te's biggest shareholder with just under 50 per cent, is best-known for his ownership of London restaurants, including the celebrity haunt The Ivy, Scott's and Le Caprice. He also owns the capital's upmarket Annabel's nightclub and the Wentworth Club in Surrey. He is worth an estimated \u00a3700m.Founded in 2007, C\u00f4te, which offers dishes from steak frites to moules marini\u00e8res, has powered its way through the consumer downturn and continues to open up to 12 restaurants a year.The restaurant is being sold on a multiple of at least nine times forward underlying earnings of between \u00a313m and \u00a314m for this year. The expected price tag of \u00a3120m-plus reflects a similar multiple to the completed sales of other popular chains, such as the Italian food chain Carluccio's and noodle business Wagamama, in recent years.While Mr Caring and some of the founding team are tipped to exit C\u00f4te, the joint managing directors, Harald Samuelsson and Alex Scrimgeour, are likely to remain at the helm.C\u00f4te is the latest investment to be sold by Mr Caring. He is reportedly preparing to sell 20 Grosvenor Square, the former American navy headquarters in London. Last year, Mr Caring offloaded 50 per cent of the 80 per cent stake he held in Soho House, the London private members' club.All parties either declined to comment or did not return calls.","Shell has Britain's nascent shale gas industry in its sights after its chief executive, Peter Voser, declared plans to be a \"leading player\" in the fast-growing global fracking business.Fresh from signing a \u00a36bn shale gas deal with the Ukraine at Davos last week, Mr Voser said he was looking at a number of fracking opportunities across Europe, including the UK and Germany. Shell disclosed its interest in UK fracking after revealing a disappointing 6 per cent slump in profits to $27bn (\u00a317bn) for 2012, as its US oil and gas business was hit by rising costs and falling prices. The shares fell nearly 3 per cent to 2,294p.The company also revealed a $90m hit from the grounding of its Arctic drilling rig, the Kulluk, near the Alaskan coast on New Year's Eve, after it ran into a storm on the way to Seattle for routine maintenance. It said the Kulluk was not yet repaired, and it was \"too early\" to say whether its Arctic setbacks would be resolved in time for the drilling season, which runs from July to October. However, Mr Voser pledged his allegiance to the Arctic despite a series of setbacks over the years in the region, where Shell has invested $5bn but has yet to discover commercial quantities of oil.Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is used to release oil and shale gas from rocks by blasting sand, chemicals and water into them. The practice is controversial because it has been linked to earthquakes and water pollution, but it has also enabled an energy revolution in the US, where new techniques have unleashed a wave of rock-based oil and gas. Shell already has significant fracking operations in the US and has secured contracts to produce shale gas in China.The practice was temporarily banned in the UK after the country's first exploratory shale gas drilling site, near Blackpool, was linked to earth tremors. However, it was given the green light in December after an investigation concluded it should proceed under close supervision.Mr Voser said he was \"very excited\" about the opportunities for fracking, but cautioned that there was no certainty of a deal being done in the UK, where he saw no prospect of any significant shale gas production for at least 10 years.In comments echoing recent statements from British Gas owner Centrica and BP, Mr Voser said: \"Given the population density, we see less development in European shale [than the US] and that also applies to the UK. I don't see the impact of shale as a major driver over the next 10 years although it might be after that.\"Whether the UK could develop a successful shale gas industry depends primarily on whether it has the right geology, as well as the right regulation and tax structures, Mr Voser added.He played down, without denying outright, reports that Shell is considering buying a stake in Cuadrilla, a company chaired by the former BP chief executive Lord Browne that caused the tremors near Blackpool and is leading the fracking charge in the UK.\"We are on the high level so don't link us to anything which is ongoing at this stage. That would be too early,\" he said.The $90m Kulluk charge, to be spread over the fourth quarter of 2012 and the current quarter, covers salvage and other costs but no repair work, meaning that the eventual cost to Shell could be considerably higher.","Now TV was launched by BSkyB in an attempt to attract people who didn't want any part of Sky TV. It's a sort of pay-as-you-go service which allows you to buy movies over the internet for a monthly fee but without a contract and was designed to attract people who don't fancy paying out for Sky long term. A sports version is coming.I took a shot at the plan when it was launched \u2013 why waste a bunch of money creating a new brand when you have a very powerful one already? But actually, it now looks quite clever when it comes to Sky's relationship with its existing customers.Sky doesn't want to cannibalise them with its pay-as-you-go business. It wants to keep hold of them, because they are on longer-term contracts and are therefore more valuable (and more highly rated by the City) than people who can easily just, say, stopping buying Now TV when they happen to be going on holiday.This is still a very real danger. Now has been very successful. BSkyB attracted 88,000 new customers in the last quarter of the year (its second quarter financially). Of those, 50,000 bought its TV services and half of those went for Now TV, rather than buying a full Sky subscription.Overall sales during the first half of Sky's year grew 5 per cent to \u00a33.53bn, not much off the 5.5 per cent growth turned in last year, while pre-tax profits grew 8 per cent, to \u00a3642m. That's a long way off the 28 per cent surge recorded last year, but not too shabby, and the company says it is investing in new products and services.That could pay dividends. One happy number for Sky was its Arpu \u2013 or average revenue per customer \u2013 which came in at \u00a3568 in Sky's second quarter, ahead of forecasts, and the first quarter (\u00a3550). So customers are buying more from Sky.There are people in Britain who view it as more important than food. And spend more money on it.So all's rosy in the garden, right? Well, here's the downside. The competitive landscape continues to get tougher. Sky's customer churn rate is growing, and it is going to get progressively harder to replace lost customers and maintain growth. Its customer service doesn't always live up to expectations \u2013 my experience moving house with Sky means I am no longer a customer, and won't be again.Sky's rivals for providing broadband are snapping at its heels, and it can't help the company when the controlling shareholder, Rupert Murdoch, generates negative publicity, even though he isn't interfering with Sky as much as he once did and won't be launching any takeover bids anytime soon.The shares are pricey at 14 times this year's forecast earnings, albeit with a respectable yield of 3.5 per cent.Sky is an impressive commercial machine that seems to print money. But the going is getting harder. Last February I said hold at 689.5p, and I reiterated that in September. Now might be a good time to cash in. Take profits.Usually when I look at Sky I take in ITV, although it will be a few weeks before the terrestrial giant reports. The last couple of times that has proved to be embarrassing. I said no way at 77p and no way at 88p. Now the shares are passed 110p. And I'm still saying no.Look, Adam Crozier's plan to reduce the broadcaster's dependence on ads seems to be working. The company has managed to make \u2013 or get behind \u2013 several hit shows, and has been successfully selling them overseas. While ad revenue is flat, and forecasts for its future are cloudy, the company has at least been doing better than might have been expected. And it has paid off in terms of the share price.But producing hits is a cyclical thing, and ITV needs to find answers for when blockbusters such as X Factor and Britain's Got Talent reach the end of their lives. At 12 times this year's forecast earnings, with a prospective 2.6 per cent yield, ITV is no longer a cheap recovery play. At the risk of getting burned again: avoid."," French and German investors laugh at British companies and the Chancellor, George Osborne, when they blame poor trading and economic figures on the weather. Changing seasons are a fact of life, they argue, so they can't be singled out as explanations for bad results.OutlookM&amp;B and Enterprise Inns both said that cold weather and snow had hurt them in recent weeks. The latter, owner of 6,000 pubs, said a \"loss of beer volume\" cost it \u00a31.5m.Admittedly, the weather is not uniform one year to the next, but snow and icy conditions are not so remarkable that a well-run business fails to have plans in place to counter their effects.Construction companies use a similar trick when it accounts for contract failures, such as overspending on projects in an industry where profit margins are wafer thin, as one-off problems.Bad contracts are so rife that they cannot be considered separate from everyday trading.It's time for companies to stop blaming the weather and actually come up with plans that nullify the financial pain it causes."," Given that Mitchells &amp; Butlers owns Harvester, perhaps the group's then-chairman, John Lovering, should have treated fund managers to some early-bird specials on the outskirts of a provincial town, like one of the company's six eateries in-and-around Bournemouth.OutlookHowever, being used to nosh a touch classier than that provided by the pubs and chain restaurants in M&amp;B's portfolio, which also includes Toby Carvery and All Bar One, Mr Lovering instead fine-dined at the exclusive Mosimann's club in Belgravia back in 2010.The former Debenhams boss vowed to his audience of around a dozen institutional investors that he would \"normalise\" the group's troublesome share register. He also outlined a two-year plan that seemed to suggest he was aiming to get the heavily indebted M&amp;B's stock price back above a fiver \u2013 or at least 420p, when he clarified his comments to The Independent on Sunday a few months later.The best part of three years later and Mr Lovering is long gone, investors are still scared off by a register that sees two major shareholders seemingly poised to take M&amp;B out fairly cheaply at any minute, and the price has not even reached 350p over the past 12 months.In today's interim management statement, M&amp;B's chief executive, Alistair Darby, admitted that \"trading has slowed\" since the new year, though a third of the group's bars, pubs and restaurants did break their sales records over Christmas. Debt is still at \u00a31.8bn, when M&amp;B is worth only around \u00a31.2bn.Langton Capital's analyst Mark Brumby reiterated the point that \"the nature of M&amp;B's share register continues to some extent to overshadow the group's trading performance\". This underplays the drag of having the billionaire Joe Lewis, who has previously tried to buy out M&amp;B for less than \u00a31bn, and Elpida, a vehicle owned by the Irish horseracing tycoons John Magnier and JP McManus, owning nearly half the company.The Takeover Panel has previously rejected M&amp;B's claims that the two parties might be acting in concert, and a source close to the company insists the board is now convinced that is the case. The problem is most existing and potential investors think, rightly or wrongly, that there is too much risk the two could one day band together and take out M&amp;B on the cheap.This feeling has only been exacerbated by the disclosure earlier this week that the vehicle of another racehorse owner, Derrick Smith, now holds a 3 per cent stake in M&amp;B. In 2011, that vehicle, Smoothfield Holding, was confirmed to be acting in tandem with Elpida, meaning that the three investors own more than half of M&amp;B.That brings up the prospect of the billionaires being able to buy M&amp;B through a scheme of arrangement, which means they would snaffle the company with no premium.It doesn't matter that Elpida and Mr Lewis are not working together. The fact is other investors are worried that they could. For some, the wounds of what happened at bingo hall operator Rank are still fresh.In 2011, Guoco, the Hong Kong-based investment company of the Malaysian tycoon Quek Leng Chan, was forced to make an offer for Rank under takeover rules, having built up a stake of more than 40 per cent. Minority shareholders complained they had been squeezed out, forced to accept a cheap bid that undervalued their stock and led to the bizarre situation that Rank is still partly floated on the Stock Exchange.Although it would be understandable if Mr Lewis and Epsilon do not see the need to clarify their positions again, it's difficult to understand how M&amp;B can again be a FTSE 100 powerhouse unless Mr Lovering's two-and-a-half-year pledge to sort out the register is finally met. Investors are simply too worried that the ownership of the group is concentrated in so few hands. It's about time that M&amp;B's management picked one final \u2013 sorry for the clich\u00e9 \u2013 bar-room brawl to bring this saga to an end.","There was intense speculation in the City last night about the future of Seymour Pierce, the stockbroker led by football deal maker Keith Harris.Mr Harris, the Square Mile's \"Mr Football\", has brokered some of the biggest deals in the game, and is often linked to many others that do not come to fruition.Rumours that Seymour was in some difficulty have been the talk of the City for some months, with low levels of takeover activity and little appetite from investors to take risks hitting earnings at all but the biggest brokers.The firm is known to have been seeking a cash injection from an outside investor for some time.City sources say that administration is a possibility but insist that it is not imminent. Mr Harris is said to be seeking funds of perhaps \u00a33m.A smooth-talking, several times divorced Manchester United fan, Mr Harris has led Seymour since 1999. His scalps include introducing Roman Abramovich to Chelsea, getting Randy Lerner into Aston Villa and overseeing the purchase of Manchester City by the former Thailand prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra.He has been linked to many other deals involving clubs across the Premier and other leagues.He did not return calls last night seeking comment. His public relations firm also declined comment.But City sources said they were not surprised by the news and claimed the firm was running out of time to shore up its position.Seymour has been around since 1883, but like many rivals has found the financial crisis tough to handle.Similar-sized firms have merged to save costs or sought help from wealthy overseas backers keen to grab a foothold in the City of London.Mr Harris was involved somewhat in the \"Red Knights\" who tried to launch a takeover of Manchester United in 2010.Most of the firm is owned by Mr Harris and other staff following a management buyout in 2003.For the year to September 2011, Seymour recorded a loss of \u00a3600,000.Mr Harris lives in Chelsea. He was formerly a neighbour of the TV presenter David Frost in that borough.","Investors who hung up on BT shares earlier this week came running back to the telecoms giant yesterday after its fourth-quarter results were way better than expected. The forecasts earlier in the week were so low that even BT's house broker, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, decided to move to neutral from buy.But our desire for better and faster broadband helped chief executive Ian Livingston report pre-tax profits up 7 per cent to \u00a3675m in the three months to the end of December \u2013 well ahead of City forecasts.The shares dialled up a 16.2p gain to a five-year high of 264.8p and a place at the top of the benchmark index.A new restructuring plan is now anticipated by the City, and Jefferies' Jerry Dellis thinks the stock is worth a buy at 278p.BT will launch its TV and Sports channels in the summer, and has signed up an extra 21,000 customers to BT Vision in the last three months of 2012, taking the total to 770,000.Revenues for the quarter dropped, as expected, by 6 per cent to \u00a34.5bn.Mr Dellis thinks BT's new group-wide cost-cutting programme will result in efficiency gains that other analysts earlier this week did not think possible. Merrill had claimed further cost-cutting would \"be harder to achieve\".BT was leading a buoyant FTSE 100 index yesterday, and added 70.36 to 6347.24. The last time the blue-chip index was this high was May 2008. The market is certainly looking healthier despite weaker volumes, and January had the best performance since 1989.The mood yesterday was boosted by a run of good news including China's manufacturing expansion \u2013 which helped miners up \u2013 as well as news from the US that jobs figures were solid with 157,000 jobs created, just below the forecast.The US jobless rate rose slightly more than predicted, to 7.9 per cent, but this increase gave traders hope that the Federal Reserve will stay on track with its policies. The Dow Jones Industrial Average flew up 142 points to 14,003, less than 200 points off its 2007 all-time high of 14,164.53.No matter what is happening in the wider market, traders always have time for some gossip and yesterday one spurious rumour was that miner Petropavlovsk is in play and the shares dug up a 11.6p gain to 359.7p.The City took a sweeping view of the supermarkets, and decided to bet that Tesco could soon put the horsemeat burger scandal out to pasture. Two City scribblers decided it is time to tuck into the supermarket giant's shares. Analysts at Jefferies and Nomura still rate it a buy, and Jefferies' James Grzinic upped his share-price target to 440p.Nomura, with a 430p share-price target, reckons Tesco's plan to refocus on the UK business will pay off. It has more available capital than rivals, and its plans to refurbish \"a quarter of UK floor space\" will help to improve its chances of tempting cash-strapped UK shoppers to choose it over rivals. Tesco's shares edged up 4.3p to 360.6p.Jefferies is also a fan of Wm Morrison, and gives it a Buy rating with a 310p target as it \"appears remarkably cheap and should benefit from a rapid re-rating once sales momentum improves\".But Nomura is less keen and keeps it a Hold, cutting the share-price target to 270p. The Bradford-based supermarket chain's shares edged up 0.7p to 251.7p.Over on the mid-cap index, trading at banknote printer De La Rue was in line with expectations but, happily for shareholders, the company has now signed a number of contracts that had been delayed. The group said it expects more than \u00a3100m of operating profit in the full year to next year. Analysts at Investec raised their price target to 960p. The shares were top of the mid-league table, up 51.5p to 953.5p.Another day on AIM, and another dry well is plugged and abandoned. This time the bad news came from New World Oil and Gas. Shares lost almost half their value, plunging 3.35p to 4.65p, when it revealed it would have to plug and abandon its Blue Creek 2A oil well in the Pet\u00e9n Basin in north-west Belize. It will now move on to its next well, the Rio Bravo Well in West Gallon Jug in Belize.But there was better news at Beacon Hill Resources. The AIM-listed coal producer climbed 1.24p to 4.01p when it announced the signing of a lease at the Minas Moatize coal mine in Mozambique.BuyCompass GroupTime to gobble up some shares in Compass, Panmure Gordon says. The broker is looking forward to the caterer's trading update on Thursday, adding that, when the business posted its preliminary numbers \"the future prospects of the group remained encouraging\". Shares at present are 776.5p and Panmure gives a target price of 820p.SellKingfisherYikes \u2014 best take wing and fly out of Kingfisher's shares, Seymour Pierce reckons. The broker says its B&amp;Q \"is putting its loss-making Irish business into administration\" which \"highlights concerns for the UK business\". Shares are at 274.8p but Seymour feels 240p is fairer.HoldWynnstayHang on to shares in Wynnstay, Investec advises. The broker feels the agricultural manufacturer and supplier's \"broad base of activities appears to be protecting it from the vagaries of the UK weather and resultant agricultural cycles, but still generating steady growth\". Shares presently trade at 451p; Investec gives a target of 465p.","De La Rue, which designs and prints the currencies of more than 150 countries, yesterday said that it was on course to produce 6.4 billion banknotes and 9000 tonnes of paper this year as its customers commit to previously delayed orders.The company's shares increased by nearly 6 per cent, or 51.5p, to 953.5p, although De La Rue said that increasing competition from other banknotes printers was also driving down prices.","It is not so much a divide as a gaping chasm.The growing disparity between house prices in London and the South-east and those in the rest of the United Kingdom was revealed today, prompting fresh concern among first-time buyers and fears for the national economic recovery.Research shows that the net value of properties in just 10 London boroughs \u2013 Westminster, Kensington &amp; Chelsea, Wandsworth, Barnet, Camden, Richmond, Ealing, Bromley, Hammersmith &amp; Fulham and Lambeth \u2013 now outstrips the worth of all the properties in Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland combined.Elmbridge, a leafy corner of the Surrey stockbroker belt bordered by the Thames and the M25, which is home to just 131,000 people, is now worth \u00a331bn \u2013 more than Scotland\u2019s biggest city, Glasgow, where a population of 1.75m inhabits homes valued at \u00a329bn. Property in the Royal Boroughs of Windsor and Maidenhead outstrips that in the whole of Cardiff.But it is in London that the extraordinary gulf is most starkly illustrated, according to the research by the property group Savills as part of its latest Valuing Britain analysis of the UK market.The capital\u2019s richest borough, Westminster, with 121,600 dwellings, is worth \u00a395bn \u2013 more than twice the value of Edinburgh (pop 500,000) and three times that of England\u2019s sixth most populous city, Bristol.Lucian Cook, the director of Savills residential research, said the findings showed that wealth was becoming increasingly concentrated in fewer hands, with future generations in danger of being priced out of buying in the London area and trapped for life in the rental sector.\u201cIt is difficult even for owner-occupiers to trade between regions unless they are in other high-value areas of the UK. This might not be such a problem for people in Bath but it might be for those in Swindon,\u201d he said. \u201cSimilarly not for those in York or Harrogate although it could be for those living in Leeds.\u201cIf we have a market that is really constrained in terms of mortgage finance it will be very hard for areas to catch up and we expect the difference to widen in the next five years.\u201dThe total value of the UK property market has risen by nearly two thirds in the past decade to \u00a35 trillion although this is still 6.4 per cent off the 2007 peak.By contrast, homes in London are worth \u00a31.12trn, accounting for nearly a quarter of the entire value despite making up just 12 per cent of the total stock. Residential real estate in the capital is now worth 14.2 per cent more than it was at the pre-credit crunch height.The most sought-after areas in London, such as Mayfair and Knightsbridge, continue to benefit from the influx of money from the Middle East, Asia and Eastern Europe.However, other parts of the capital have benefited from the sheer levels of equity in the housing market, which has seen increasing amounts of cash chasing the same number of desirable properties, resulting in rising prices.Alexandra Jones, the chief executive of the independent think tank the Centre for Cities, said future economic growth would benefit from reducing the wealth gap between London and the rest of the UK.\u201cSome of the cities such as Manchester, Leeds and Glasgow have improved over the past 15-20 years and have done really well,\u201d she said. \u201cBut London has boomed and was the last in and the first out of the recession.\u201cThere is a big worry that people can\u2019t afford houses in places where there are jobs. That is a big problem not just locally but for the national economy. It is important to tailor policies for each individual area.\u201d"]},{"x":0.0491440220039394,"y":0.192584205274716,"no_docs":14,"words":[{"prob":0.000592700628756874,"word":"back"},{"prob":1.40410835995594e-05,"word":"won"},{"prob":1.40410835995594e-05,"word":"final"},{"prob":3.19143131615845e-05,"word":"world"},{"prob":0.00444485714304897,"word":"liverpool"},{"prob":3.16673227241698e-05,"word":"good"},{"prob":1.40410835995594e-05,"word":"players"}],"docs":["Laura Robson called it \"an ugly match\" but in years to come she will surely view it as a beautiful memory. The 18-year-old Briton's 2-6, 6-3, 11-9 victory here yesterday over Petra Kvitova in the second round of the Australian Open was testament as much to her character as to her ball-striking ability.If Robson's talent for belting huge groundstrokes and thunderous serves has never been in doubt, there have been questions in the past about her willingness to tough it out when the going gets difficult. Not any more. In the last year the 2008 junior Wimbledon champion, under the careful guidance of her Croatian coach, Zeljko Krajan, has made major progress in both her fitness and her readiness to make her opponents fight for every point.In Kvitova, the 2011 Wimbledon champion, Robson was facing a mirror image. Like the Briton, the Czech makes up for any lack of athleticism with her bold hitting. By Robson's admission, it did not make for the most elegant of matches. Rallies were short and sharp and all too often settled by mistakes.As a spectacle, nevertheless, it was compelling and thousands of spectators stayed until well after midnight to watch the conclusion. Robson was born in Melbourne and, although she lived here for less than two years, she is popular with the crowds.Robson said she had been \"super-excited\" to play in a night session on the main show court, the Rod Laver Arena, Roger Federer having started the evening programme with a victory over Nikolay Davydenko. \"I always wanted to play in a night match,\" she said. \"Fed wasn't taking that long this evening so it wasn't too bad. I had an afternoon nap, so it was all good.\"With both players striking the ball with great power, it was a match high on winners (25 to Robson, 42 to Kvitova) and unforced errors (41 by Robson, 51 by Kvitova). The hit-or-miss formula also applied to their serves: Robson hit eight aces and 12 double-faults, while Kvitova hit 18 of each.Kvitova said afterwards that she could not remember having served so poorly, but it was Robson who opened the match with two successive double-faults, dropping her serve to love. Two more breaks helped Kvitova to take the first set with something to spare, but in the second it was Robson who took control, breaking twice in a row to gain a decisive 5-1 lead.The momentum had appeared to shift in Robson's favour, but Kvitova came out shooting from the hip in the decider. The Czech led 3-0 and 4-2 and was within two points of victory when Robson served at 4-5, but the Briton fought back.At 6-5, Robson served for the match, only to play a loose game and let her opponent off. By this stage, Robson's ball toss was starting to go awry, but it was Kvitova who regularly came under pressure on her serve.Although the Czech said the heat had not been a factor, she has often struggled in difficult playing conditions. By the end of the third set she was sweating profusely \u2013 the temperature was still 32C at midnight \u2013 and looking increasingly strained.Robson, in contrast, maintained her composure from start to finish. At 9-9 she broke serve again, cracking a fine return winner down the line. When she served for victory this time, there were no mistakes. \"I started off very up and down,\" Robson said afterwards. \"You know it's going to be a pretty ugly match when you start off with two double-faults. I thought: 'I've really got to dig in here.'\"You can't win a set when you're playing five unforced errors compared to every winner. At the start of the second set I knew that I just had to play with more consistency and with more percentage. That's what I did.\"She's someone who's never going to give you a lot of rhythm because she takes the ball so early. I just had to try to get as many balls back as I could, and I was pretty disappointed with myself in how I tried to serve out at 6-5 in the third. I just gave her a bit too much time on the ball.\"Robson, who had never finished a match so late, admitted she was \"a bit tired\" and \"looking forward to going back to my apartment and sleeping\".Asked whether she had always had such an impressive fighting spirit, Robson said: \"I'd like to think so. Definitely when I played my brother in Monopoly all hell broke loose. But, yes, I think some matches you just lose the belief a little bit, whereas this one I felt like I could always win.\"Robson round-up: Laura's statistics Years since a British woman \u2013 Jo Durie \u2013 last reached the third round of consecutive Slams.26 Aces served by Robson yesterday \u2013 against Kvitova's 18.8 Double-faults by Robson yesterday \u2013 against Kvitova's total of 18.12","Rafa Benitez The man in place, so he will know the problems confronting the club and has already begun working on them. Obviously trusted by Roman Abramovich as he was chosen to fill the breach after the Russian owner decided to dispense with his Champions League-winning manager Roberto Di Matteo earlier this season. Experienced Premier League and European campaigner who reached two Champions League finals with Liverpool, winning one, and won the Uefa Cup and La Liga while at Valencia. Tactically aware to the point of obsession.FOR Chelsea's support detest him, even in a caretaker role, because of his association with Liverpool when the clubs were European rivals \u2013 and what he was purported to have said about the London side while he was in charge at Anfield. And the fans at Stamford Bridge have made this very clear. Regarded as a coach who creates functional rather than exciting teams, perhaps owing to obsession with tactics. Critics argue his European success with Liverpool was achieved with a team built by G\u00e9rard Houllier, and with a second-half recovery that owed more to the players than the coach. On the evidence of the last few months his fabled ability to get the best from Fernando Torres appears to have been overstated.AGAINSTJ\u00fcrgen Klopp The new Mourinho? Abramovich likes flavour-of-the-month coaches and the fiery German is the latest after the way his Dortmund team took Manchester City apart in Europe while qualifiying ahead of Real Madrid. Produces young, exciting and domestically successful teams playing to a high tempo despite a much smaller budget than rivals Bayern Munich. Always dressed in black (like Avram Grant, but much more stylishly), he behaves like a Teutonic Martin O'Neill on the touchline but, as with O'Neill, the antics hide a shrewd brain (Klopp has a degree in sports science and is a very lucid pundit). Yes, he may be unknown here, but so was Ars\u00e8ne Wenger when he arrived at Arsenal.FOR No experience in England and limited success in Europe. It took Klopp two seasons before he turned Dortmund around, time he would not be given at Chelsea, given the owner's previous propensity to fire. Methods seem to work best with young players and he could clash with John Terry. But the man in black seems in no rush to leave the vibrant Bundesliga anyway, having already rebuffed Liverpool and recently emphasised he is under contract to 2016 and sees no reason to leave. Even more likely to stay put now he that can pit his wits against his new rival Pep Guardiola.AGAINSTMichael Laudrup Put himself in the frame last week when Swansea won 2-0 at Stamford Bridge to embellish an impressive first season in the Premier League. Has shown tactical acumen by adapting the Swansea passing model to enable the team to be more direct or more defensive as required. Success of Chico Flores and Michu suggests a shrewd eye in the transfer market. Has experience of being at big clubs, having played for Juventus, Barcelona and Real Madrid in a stellar career. Man-management also seems good, with the way he has kept Danny Graham on scoring form even after the player was pushed aside by MichuFOR Managerial career promising but yet to live up to his playing record. Did well in Denmark but Brondby are a big fish in a very small pool; elsewhere has prospered at Getafe and Swansea but not in the more demanding environment of Spartak Moscow. Unlikely to covet the prospect of working at such an unstable club at Chelsea, having resigned at Mallorca in frustration at the working environment. Perhaps would be a contender for the Chelsea circus in a few years' time, once he has experienced the limelight at a bigger club than Swansea. Conversely, he is also contender to replace Jose Mourinho at Real Madrid, which would surely be preferable to the Dane.AGAINSTRoberto Martinez Tactically sophisticated, good judge of a player, expert coach, steeped in both Spanish tiki-taka and, after playing in the lower divisions, English thud-and-blunder. Calm under pressure and able to lift his team after 9-0 and 8-0 defeats. Develops confident, patient, passing sides despite slim resources. Good with the media, polite to referees (mostly), popular with his peers \u2013 and all-round good egg. What's not to like?FOR Yet to win any major honour \u2013 the only silverware he has won as a manager is the League One title with Swansea in 2008. Has no experience of coaching in European competition, all his top-flight experience is in fighting relegation battles and has a poor track record against the big clubs. Who knows what he would be like with a supposedly limitless budget? Plus, if asked, he could deliver Abramovich a hugely embarrassing snub, for he is young in managerial terms and may feel he is better off maintaining his development away from such an unstable club. Martinez has already chosen to reject Aston Villa and Liverpool to stay with Wigan. He made the decision to spurn Liverpool's advances, making the latter decision because he did not want to work with a director of football \u2013 pertinent, given the interference endured by Chelsea managers.AGAINSTJose Mourinho Brilliant tactician and man-motivator. Built the spine of the Chelsea team that has won three league titles, four FA Cups and the Champions League, albeit not all under his command. Has also won league titles in Portugal, Italy and Spain, and the Champions League with Porto and Internazionale. The man wins silverware wherever he goes, at least up until he arrived at Real Madrid. The man who toppled Guardiola's Barcelona. Knows Chelsea and the Premier League and remains immensely popular with Stamford Bridge support. Will be available, as his relationship with Real Madrid is headed for a messy divorce, whatever happens in the Champions League.FOR Very high-maintenance, as Abramovich knows having sacked him in 2007 after three tumultuous years. If he returns it is almost certain to lead to controversy before ending again in recriminations The Cech-Terry-Lampard-Drogba axis Mourinho constructed is slowly being broken up and he would be told to complete this process and continue the renewal embarked upon by Andre Villas-Boas and Di Matteo. But he develops counter-attacking teams rather than the ball-playing ones Abramovich appears to desire. Also has designs on succeeding Sir Alex Ferguson at Manchester United.AGAINST","It was great for us to bounce back at Birmingham in the FA Cup on Tuesday night, after a bleak Saturday losing at Yorkshire rivals Barnsley. I expect when we went 1-0 down at St Andrew's everybody expected us to fold as, for all Birmingham's current difficulties, they still have some very good players. But the boys showed character, played some good stuff, and thoroughly deserved to progress.The win brought rich reward \u2013 a home televised tie against Spurs. We really have done well with cup draws this season; this will be our fourth home match against Premier League opposition, having played Everton, Southampton and Chelsea in the Capital One Cup.It's great for our fans and they deserve it. Even on a cold and miserable night we took 1,500 to Birmingham and the support was absolutely fantastic. Though we had been poor at Barnsley, they completely got behind the team from the off and I never heard one negative comment all night, even when we went behind. I expect most of the fans at Birmingham had also been at Barnsley. They are the real hard core of our support and it was great to give them something to cheer about on the long journey home.We have to forget about Spurs today and concentrate on Bristol City. They are languishing at the bottom but, as Sod's Law would have it, have a new manager in charge. Such is the managerial turnover in the Championship perhaps it's not that unusual.The new man is Sean O'Driscoll. It was only at Christmas that Sean was in charge of a Nottingham Forest team that beat us. After having a drink with him in the office I was travelling home only to hear he'd been sacked, so I hope that is a warning for him: he needs to lose today, then he'll be OK.2. Wilshere wonderI saw the most complete performance in midfield for a long time this week when I watched Jack Wilshere against Swansea. I have never seen him dominate a game so much and any fears he would take time to recover from that serious injury he had must now have gone out of the window. If he can remain injury-free I think it opens up a whole new world for Roy Hodgson and the England team. Wilshere could play in any team in the world and not look out of place.Wilshere was involved in this week's controversial sending-off. I was surprised Kompany's red card was overturned as the rules state it has to be an obvious error, yet his tackle could easily have hurt Wilshere, which is what managers are told is what matters. I was way off the mark last week when I said that game would be an easy one for Mike Dean. Manchester United v Liverpool was a doddle for Howard Webb in comparison. I happen to think Mike had a great game and got nearly every decision right, which is not easy in a match of such high tempo.The other controversial match this week was Manchester United against West Ham. I expect Sam Allardyce will be getting a call from the compliance unit after he said \"the difference between Rafael's handball and Spence's was that Jordan plays for West Ham away against Manchester United and Rafael plays at home at Old Trafford\", but most managers would know what Sam was on about.On the subject of officials, can somebody tell me what harm was done by linesman John Brooks telling the Manchester City players to go and wave at the fans who had paid \u00a362 to be at Arsenal? Surely you have to allow a bit of humour. We don't want robots that don't speak. Well done, John, for showing officials can be human.3. Johnson's sad imageI was saddened to see the picture of Michael Johnson and his sad demise at such a young age. I remember trying to sign him a couple of times on loan but he was too good for the teams I was at. He was going to be the next Bryan Robson, It just shows how quickly things can change in football and how no one can take anything for granted.On a similar note, I was really sad to see Darren Fletcher being ruled out for the season after an operation for his bowel condition. He has fought tooth and nail to get back to fitness and everyone will be hoping this operation will give him a chance to be up and running next season. He deserves it.One man who will certainly be hoping Darren gets back to this best is Gordon Strachan as Darren has got to be one of Scotland's best players. It is a great appointment for Gordon. He has seen and done it all at club level but I don't think he enjoyed the last job at Middlesbrough. Managing your country is different and you can already see that extra skip in his walk and smile. If he doesn't succeed it won't be for lack of trying.Character is so important in football. A player who showed it this week was Jon Walters, bouncing back after his two own goals and a missed penalty against Chelsea to score twice for Stoke in midweek. There is no more hard-working forward and I was pleased for him. I remember being so disappointed when he went there \u2013 I had him sat in my office trying to get him to come to QPR and help us get out of the Championship. Then Tony Pulis rang and offered him Premier League football immediately. That was always going to sway him and he has been a fabulous signing for Stoke.4. It's amazing how team morale snowballsThe players were a bit surprised on Thursday when I took them out on to the snow for a match. As I told them, in my day we just rolled the snow flat, took out an orange ball and got on with it. Once they got playing they enjoyed it, and took it seriously because there was a forfeit. As you can see, the losers had to line up on the goal-line while the winners snowballed them from the edge of the box \u2013 two snowballs each.That sort of thing is great for team spirit, but today we had a full session on a good pitch. Leeds' facilities are the best I've known and we were able to cover one pitch overnight. When we rolled the covers back it was snow-free and not frozen.We've had snow up here most of the week, which has made the kids very jealous, but it finally arrived in their part of Cornwall this morning so they can enjoy a snowy weekend.5. Pep talks nonsenseNo wonder journalists don't take any notice of what managers say. On Wednesday morning all the papers were full of Pep Guardiola saying, \"I want to manage in England\". At lunchtime it was revealed he is going to Germany.I wasn't that surprised. He will relish the environment at Bayern, who do have fantastic facilities and great players. As this season's Champions League has shown, the top German teams are really among the best in Europe again.6. Ban the diversIt was interesting seeing Luis Suarez admitting to diving. I have long said \u2013 and a lot of managers agree \u2013 if players who commit dives that prove to be blatant were given a three-to-six-match ban it would soon put a stop to it.7. Nicely poised tiesI wonder what the odds were on a Swansea-Bradford City Wembley final at the start of the season, or even the start of the month. But the Capital One Cup final could yet be Aston Villa-Chelsea. Chelsea are playing better away from home at present, as we know as they scored five goals against us in 45 minutes in the previous round. I know we are not a Premier League team but Swansea will be well aware that Chelsea are more than capable of overturning a two-goal lead. The other semi is also nicely poised.8. FA snubbed meI was disappointed not to get an invite to the FA's 150th anniversary party this week. After all, I must have paid for half the meals they served with all the fines I've paid over the years.","I was on the ITV show Splash! last night. If you didn't see it then you should know that it's a TV show with a huge tongue in a large cheesy cheek, in which Tom Daley teaches 15 \"celebrities\" to dive. After three weeks' training, last night was judgement day. People ask what the most nerve-racking part of diving from the 10m board is. The answer is the 24 hours that you spend beforehand worrying about it.Television people panic a lot and with a live show they like to have the \"talent\" corralled as early as possible. If they had their way you'd be brought in and locked in a small caravan at least three days before a show so that they can keep an eye on you. The one thing that being in TV for a while has taught me is to fight call times tooth and nail. I was very badly snowed in on Friday and couldn't get to Southend for my final day's dive training. This totally freaked out the producers, who decided that they would send a 4x4 to fetch me from the Snowmageddon of the Cotswolds and \"overnight\" me in Luton's finest hotel. I said no, as all that would happen would be that I'd sit in a soulless hotel room and worry about the next night's show. I asked them to pick me up in a 4x4 yesterday morning so that I could spend the evening at home in the bosom of my family/in the village pub drinking away the fear.So yesterday, the day of the show, I awoke to the sight of a very luxurious car that was very much not a 4x4. I knew this, not because I'm a car expert, but because it was stuck in the snow in my courtyard and the driver was digging himself out with a shovel. After a hair-raising drive to Luton, I eventually arrived and went straight into rehearsals. This meant trying on my tight Lycra costume, selecting a hideous dressing gown and then walking through the shots with a stunt diver actually doing the dive I would be doing later. Obviously, he did a fabulous dive that only made me more nervous. Fortunately, I don't think I was the only one with the jitters. All five contestants in my heat had little trailers lined up next to each other and all I could hear all afternoon was the sound of chemical toilets being flushed \u2026My wife and kids arrived at five o'clock and were shown to their seats. It felt a bit like giving them tickets to see you fight for your life in the Colosseum. All I wanted to do was not embarrass them too much and to survive my 40mph plummet from the top board. Linda Barker won the dress rehearsal and Donna Air came second. I was booted off \u2013 was this what was to come for real? I was in two minds as to what to feel. I'm very competitive and hate to lose, but I'd just seen the schedule for next week. There are only 10 high dive boards in the UK and I appear to live as far away from any of them as is possible. This meant that my next week involved six hours a day in a car and a lot more\u00a0pain.Then it was showtime \u2026 the moment the title music started I could feel the nerves. I tried to control them but it was like a wave of anxiety punching me repeatedly in the face. Everything went into a bit of a blur. I wasn't really there, in a overgrown convict's outfit and a spangly dressing gown about to hurl myself off a cliff. Then I heard my name being called; people were cheering, a model stepped out of nowhere and took my robe off. I started high-fiving people I didn't know.I floated across the pontoon towards the diving board as a VT played insinuating that, after a promising start, I had reached an emotional crisis in my short diving career. I was now on top of the 10m board and everyone looked very, very small. Vernon Kay said something to me and then a green light flashed to indicate that I should dive. I forgot everything and hurled myself off\u00a0the board and smashed down into the water far below, the worst dive I'd done in the entire three weeks of training.The good news was that my back wasn't broken. I didn't get through to the semi-finals. I was disappointed but my work here was done, and I was off wandering\u00a0alone down the curious road of show business towards God knows where \u2026Saturday night turkeysSplash! has been roundly panned by critics. But if you think it's bad, then you can't have seen these:Pets Win Prizes, 1990sDanny Baker and Dale Winton oversaw the chaos as punters and their pets tackled challenges. Gone after three series, dog snooker wasn't as popular as it first sounded.Ice Warriors, 1998Dani Behr presented. It didn't make it to a second series.Celebrity Wrestling, 2005Two teams of celebrities grappled. It was hiked off ITV's prime-time slot after five miserable weeks.Don't Scare The Hare, 2011Swiped off BBC1's Saturday-night schedule before the end of its run, contestants took quiz questions and physical challenges with the bizarre aim of not frightening a giant, robotic hare.Red Or Black, 2011Simon Cowell's \u00a315m game-of-chance, fronted by Ant and Dec, failed to match the viewing figures of Britain's Got Talent and I'm a Celebrity...","The World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) said yesterday it might re-examine disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong's lifetime ban from sport. However, its chief said the \"show-business confession\" was not enough: the cyclist would need to give detailed evidence. The statement was a small sign that the cyclist's carefully choreographed television confession could pay dividends.Meanwhile, Armstrong's fall from grace is to be turned into a Hollywood biopic, with Paramount Pictures buying the film rights to a forthcoming book that unravels his career.The usually steely-eyed cyclist saved his tears for the finale of his two-part interview with Oprah Winfrey, broadcast in America early yesterday morning UK time. The Texan welled up as he described telling his mother and son that he had used performance-enhancing drugs to win his Tour de France titles.The former professional cyclist also used the second interview to suggest that a lifetime ban from competitive sport was \"a death penalty\" and too harsh compared with the six-month bans meted out to 11 colleagues who got reduced bans for testifying against him. Critics will see this as further evidence that his agreement to do the interview was motivated by a desire to compete again \u2013 something he denied when asked by Winfrey.His lifetime ban bars him from both professional and community or social sporting events, such as the triathlons and mountain-bike races he previously enjoyed.Armstrong said: \"I deserve to be punished. Not sure I deserve a death penalty.\" He added: \"I would love the opportunity to compete but that isn't the reason why I'm doing this... It might not be the most popular answer but I think I deserve [the chance].\"The head of Wada, John Fahey, said that the lifetime ban could be lifted if Armstrong asked to reopen his drugs case and gave substantial information about drug suppliers, corrupt officials and other drug cheats.Mr Fahey criticised Armstrong for choosing a television interview over giving formal evidence to doping investigators, adding that just weeks ago Armstrong had turned down the chance to give evidence to the US Anti-Doping Agency (Usada). \"He chose Oprah instead of giving evidence under oath and to be cross-examined\", he said.He added: \"We would want specific details and new information, names, times, places, who supplied the drugs, which officials are involved, not just confirmation of what Usada already knows. He needs to do it properly, not just for show business.\"While Armstrong appeared calm and even withdrawn in the first interview, which attracted 4.3 million viewers in the US for its two airings, he used the second to show a more emotional side. Welling up with tears, he recalled feeling compelled to tell his 13-year-old son, Luke, the truth: \"When this all really started, I saw my son defending me, and saying: 'That's not true, what you're saying about my dad is not true.' That's when I knew I had to tell him. And he'd never asked me. He'd never said: 'Dad, is this true?' He trusted me... at that point, I decided it was out of control and I had to have a talk with him here over the holidays.\"He spoke at length about his ex-wife Kristin, claiming that she was \"not that curious\" about his drug use; \"didn't want to know\", and later encouraged him to stop using them. The assertion seems to contradict the Usada report into Armstrong's doping, which included witnesses saying she had helped. But Armstrong recasts her as a truth-teller who was the reason he came back to the sport clean in 2009 \u2013 a statement that also directly contradicts evidence found in the Usada investigation.Betsy Andreu, the wife of Armstrong's former teammate Frankie Andreu, whose evidence to the Sunday Times journalist David Walsh was crucial in bringing down Armstrong, said the former champion was not telling the truth about his ex-wife. She told CNN: \"Lance is being really disingenuous... I am not so sure I buy that.\"Andreu also hit out at how inadequate Armstrong's apologies had been, saying: \"Boo hoo. He's not getting it. What about Greg LeMond's bike company, that was completely destroyed? It doesn't make sense. What about Scott Mercier not having a career? Christophe Bassons not having a career? Other guys who didn't want to do what he wanted them to do not having a career? You can't put a price on opportunity lost and we're not even talking millions of dollars, we're just talking about people who want to make a living so they can pay a mortgage and save some money after.\"Armstrong on Oprah: the winners and losersWINNERSLance ArmstrongThis was an exercise in reputation management: two prime-time chances to win back the American public and steer the narrative away from the more damaging USADA allegations \u2013 such as bribing the UCI and continuing to dope in his comeback. He was also able to win back extra sympathy by appearing to be contrite and honest, replacing the flinty defiance of the first interview with schmaltz and tears for his family in the second. Despite admitting that he hoped one outcome of the interview would be the chance to compete again, he denied that was his motivation for confessing, instead casting it as something he was doing for his kids, saying: \u201cThe biggest hope and intention was the wellbeing of my children.\u201dUnion Cycliste Internationale (UCI)Armstrong insisted that cycling\u2019s world governing body, the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), was not complicit in covering up a a positive test at the 2001 Tour of Switzerland. The United States Anti-Doping Agency\u2019s (USADA) report detailed a $100,000 donation to the UCI which Armstrong denied was a pay-off.Livestrong FoundationBy detailing how he has stepped away from the foundation he set up to \u2018inspire and empower\u2019 cancer survivors \u2013 and by showing emotion about it - Armstrong has begun to decontaminate the brand he established.Kristin ArmstrongIn part two of the Oprah installment, Armstrong\u2019s ex-wife Kristin was recast as a saint and lover of truth who made him go clean. USADA\u2019s \u201creasoned decision\u201d on Armstrong that was released last year said Kristin Armstrong was very much a part of her ex-husband\u2019s doping culture. In several eyewitness accounts, she witnesses Armstrong\u2019s doping and, in at least one instance, even helped administer drugs by \u201cwrapping pills and handing them to riders\u201d.LawyersLawsuits were already streaming in following the USADA ruling and now Armstrong\u2019s confession has opened the floodgates. Among the ones we can expect are a whistleblower lawsuit from fellow cyclist, Flloyd Landis; SCA promotions that underwrote his Tour De France wins, The Sunday Times and many sponsors.Oprah, OWN and the advertisersA worldwide scoop means major publicity for Oprah Winfrey. The first segment of the interview, broadcast at 2am GMT on Friday, was the most-watched programme in the history of the Oprah Winfrey Network, drawing an audience of 4.3m to the US broadcast. Anyone with advertising in the breaks will also be laughing all the way to the bank.CyclingThe sport gets a rash of publicity and can recast itself with a clean start. British cycling has done particularly well at painting themselves as the squeaky-clean new dawn for the sport).LOSERSBetsy AndreuAn apology was not enough for years of vendetta against Andreu\u2019s attempts to blow the whistle on Armstrong\u2019s doping and bullying. In the interview he still refuses to admit that he ordered his teammates to dope. She has said she is \u201cvery disappointed\u201d by the interview.Former teammatesFrankie Andreu, Tyler Hamilton and Floyd Landis - among others - have all given evidence against Armstrong. He is still denying much of what they said about the way he led the team and pushed out those who wouldn\u2019t dope.USADAHuge swathes of the USADA report into Armstrong are still being denied by the cyclist, such as the allegation that he tested positive during the 2001 Tour de Suisse and conspired with officials of the International Cycling Union officials to cover it up \u2014 in exchange for a donation. \u201cThat story wasn\u2019t true. There was no positive test, no paying off of the labs. There was no secret meeting with the lab director,\u201d he said.Emma O\u2019ReillyThe masseuse also received a paltry half-apology and, like the others, her statements have attempted to be undermined by Armstrong maintaining that his critics made false allegations as well as true ones. He still won\u2019t back up most of the things she testified.Emily Dugan","It is a quarter of a century now since the opening indoor international athletics meeting of the season was first staged in Glasgow, the long-legged Linford Christie showing the sprinting power that was to get him on to the medal podium at the Seoul Olympics later that year, 1988, with record-breaking performances in the 60 metres, 200m and 4x200m relay for Great Britain against France. That was at the old Kelvin Hall in the west end of town, where the Bridgeton boy Jim Watt famously floored Alfredo Pitalua to claim the world lightweight boxing title back in 1979.Across the Clyde in Parkhead, opposite Celtic Park in the east end, the brand spanking new \u00a3113m Emirates Arena is getting ready to host its first big event this Saturday. The British Athletics International match will feature medal winners from the London Olympics, such as the Cambridgeshire high jumper Robbie Grabarz and the US sprinter Carmelita Jeter.The knockout stuff for the sell-out crowd and the BBC television audience, however, will be the appearance of some of the Paralympians who captured the Great British public's imagination last September.\"It's going to be really exciting,\" Sophia Warner says. \"There are four events for Paralympic athletes on the programme and for the first time ever, I think, the people coming along to watch will know who the Paralympic athletes are as well as the able-bodied athletes. That's incredible to think, for someone like myself, who has come right through from when the interest was non-existent.\"Warner will be on the sidelines on Saturday, watching the likes of Stef Reid and Libby Clegg, both silver medal winners at London 2012, lead the way in this groundbreaking integration of Paralympic and Olympic competition; there have been one-off races for disabled athletes before but never a showcased series, as there will be in all three of Britain's televised indoor athletics meetings this winter. Warner could just as well be taking part in the action herself, though.The 38-year-old mother of two has cerebral palsy and has been a member of the GB Paralympic team since 1998. She won two medals at the World Championships in Auckland two years ago \u2013 bronze in the T35 100m, silver in the 200m \u2013 and was one of the home Paralympians who wowed the 80,000 crowds at the Olympic Stadium in Stratford last September.Tantalisingly, Warner failed to make it to the podium, finishing fourth in the 100m and 200m, but in her role as commercial director of UK Athletics she has ensured that the Paralympic flame has kept burning brightly in the aftermath of London 2012.Warner took time out from her burgeoning marketing career to concentrate on her preparations for last year's Games before taking up her key appointment with the domestic governing body of track and field in October. It is due in no small part to her drive that her fellow Paralympians have been given a deserved platform in the indoor season \u2013 and that Britain has been chosen as the venue for two of eight meetings, including the final, in a Diamond League-style Paralympic track-and-field grand prix circuit this summer (the exact details of which have yet to be formally announced by the International Paralympic Committee).\"When UK Athletics took me in as commercial director my focus was obviously going to be across the board, but I think they were very aware that I was always going to have a soft spot for disability sport,\" Warner says. \"Therefore, my impact on that side of things was always going to be significant. I wasn't going to sit back and not let it progress. I was going to very much pioneer it forwards.\"I've come in as commercial director and worked very closely with the events team and I want to see these events up and running. I can't stress enough how much Paralympic sport means to us as an organisation.\"It's going to be a big year. I think we'll just see increasingly more and more events. The demand is certainly there. There is no question about that. The Paralympics showed that.\"I remember a friend saying to me, 'Oh, I haven't got a ticket yet to watch your race but I'll get one on the day'. And I do remember thinking, 'I don't think that will be possible.' But there was also a nagging doubt in the back of my head thinking, 'I hope the stadium's not empty.'\"I didn't really think it would be. I always had faith. But I still was overwhelmed by the 80,000 people cheering while my name was called. I just never experienced anything like it. It was amazing. It really was amazing.\"When I won my first World Championship gold medal in 1998 I don't think anyone was there other than my dad and his friends and now 80,000 people have watched me run a PB [personal best] in the Olympic stadium. So, as one of the older Paralympic athletes, I can see how much we've come on. London 2012 has taken us a massive step forward. Never before has the public hunger been there for watching events. I think it is fair to say that UK Athletics has responded accordingly.\"While settling into UK Athletics' offices on the north side of Birmingham, Warner has been taking the opportunity in her spare time to train at the high-performance indoor centre next door. She plans to have one final season in the fast lane, and a shot at gold at the IPC World Championships in Lyons in July, before hanging up her racing spikes.In the meantime, the trailblazing sprinter is making her mark off the track. There have been reports of UK Athletics being close to landing a lucrative sponsorship deal with BT. \"I wouldn't ever comment on anything until everything was completed,\" Warner says. \"We're having some very positive conversations with a number of potential sponsors.\"We've had a fantastic Olympic and Paralympic Games and it's all about finding the right partners to work with. If you watch this space, I think it's going to be a fantastic year.\"","White feathers can mean whatever you want of them. They can be a symbol of cowardice or the arrival of a guardian angel. Unfortunately for Andy Murray, the one that fluttered down into the Rod Laver Arena served neither purpose. All it did was briefly distract him from the growing reality that Novak Djokovic had finally stumbled upon the ruthless best of himself.After flicking away the feather, Murray won just one more of his meagre three points in the second set tie-break that announced, as brutally as a fusillade of mortar shells, that the world's best player was again on the ferocious march.Murray has such aspirations of his own and there is no reason for either him or his flinty old coach Ivan Lendl to despair of them.This, unquestionably was the Murray he promised to be while winning, from the grasp of yesterday's conqueror, the US Open last September and in Friday's semi-final hounding of the great Roger Federer further into the margins of the world he once dominated so profoundly.The real trouble was not a failure of nerve, a blistered foot or a brief eruption of some of his old highly charged self-destructive emotion that plagued his hopes for so long. It was Djokovic, raw, insatiable and, ultimately, masterful Djokovic.When that figure re-emerged after an edgily introspective first set, Murray was obliged to resign himself to a little longer in the shadow of the man who is threatening, more purposefully than ever, to bring still another dimension to arguably the greatest epoch tennis has ever known.With Federer deposed and Rafael Nadal sidelined, Murray could hardly have tackled the challenge presented by Djokovic more promisingly. Though his serve appeared the more vulnerable, the range of his shots and the certainty of his movement suggested that he might well deliver a stunning one-two in winning major tournaments.Djokovic gleaned just two points from the tie-break at the end of the first set, in which his serve had looked notably impregnable even by his own awesome standards. But it was the rest of his game that had encouraged Murray.It had a degree of rare uncertainty. Oddly for a man operating in the theatre of action and on the surface he most likes, that had already brought him three of his five Grand Slams, Djokovic seemed to be trying too hard.An absurd proposition, you might have thought, while considering a man who so routinely draws the life out of the opposition. But there was Murray flourishing with some considerable panache. And there was Djokovic casting dark looks after losing his footing.It was then that Djokovic did something utterly remarkable, something which provided the first clear evidence that once again he would find a way to win. Under the severest pressure, he slipped on to his back, a situation which has caused at least a million players to beat their rackets in frustration. Djokovic played a perfect lob, got to his feet and won the point with a shot that stretched belief.Before the white feather, we had seen a lightning bolt. The rest, very quickly, become a fait accompli.If this depressed Murray, it shouldn't have done. He has suffered such rites of passage before and there should be no lasting pain or discouragement in one conducted by someone capable of mustering the astonishing force of a Djokovic suddenly at peace with himself.In last year's Wimbledon final Murray threw himself at Federer and built an early advantage. When he was repulsed, some feared for the strength of his new self-belief under the stern tutelage of Lendl, but Federer had been required to ransack his game for perhaps a final statement about his ability to win the great tournaments. A few days ago Murray was issuing a manifesto of his own. It spoke of an ability to compete with great optimism at the highest level of the game \u2013 one which in terms of power and speed and touch we may never have seen before.For most of the first two hours of yesterday's three-hour, 40-minute battle, Murray's declaration was excitingly intact. It was not the match we may have dreamt of, and which provoked some of us into the rash speculation that it might touch the levels of the 2008 Wimbledon final between Nadal and Federer, but there was more than enough evidence that both Djokovic and Murray were capable of hitting such heights.Murray said that he wanted this final to be painful because that would be the measure of its competitive quality. Afterwards, he was emphatic that his blisters were a passing inconvenience and that if he had other physical problems all of them might have been negotiable against a lesser man.It was a gracious concession of something that had become increasingly evident to an engrossed audience and not least such great champions as Andre Agassi and Boris Becker. The former German wunderkind said that Djokovic had separated himself from the rest of tennis, as the very best of champions do, and that the challenge for Murray was to work harder than ever to narrow the gap.For a while yesterday it was narrow enough to permit any outcome. By the end it was a gulf of some formidable magnitude. It had been established not only by exceptional talent but a will of quite withering intensity. Before beating Murray, Djokovic was first required to conquer himself. This he did so formidably that Murray, like a beaten fighter, could only lean back against the ropes and absorb his fate.But then, of course, he had known quite a number that were considerably worse. Two years ago he was dismantled by Djokovic on this same stage in three cruel sets. He raged and then went away in disarray. Yesterday he was in much less need of rehabilitation \u2013 and still less a well-meant white feather.","The tears have flowed when Andy Murray has lost Grand Slam finals in the past, but the worst pains the Scot felt here last night were in his blistered right foot and his sore left hamstring.Murray's horizons have changed irrevocably since he ended his wait for a Grand Slam title in New York last summer and even after his 6-7, 7-6, 6-3, 6-2 defeat to Novak Djokovic in yesterday's Australian Open final the world No 3 kept his disappointment in perspective.Although he had failed to become the first man for 57 years to follow up his maiden Grand Slam victory by winning the next event, Murray was determined to take the positives from his third defeat in four years in the final of the season's opening Grand Slam tournament.Not only had he beaten Roger Federer in a Grand Slam match for the first time in the semi-finals, he had also become the first man in the Open era to reach the final in the next tournament after winning his first major title.\"The last few months have been the best tennis of my life,\" Murray said, refusing to be downcast after Djokovic had managed to reverse their US Open final result.\"I made the Wimbledon final, won the Olympics, won the US Open. I was close here as well. I know no one's ever won a Slam immediately after winning their first one. It's not the easiest thing to do and I got extremely close.\"I have to try and look at the positives of the last few months and I think I'm going in the right direction. This is the first time I've beaten Roger in a Slam over five sets.\"I think I dealt with the situations and the ebbs and flows in that match well. I felt much more comfortable on the court today than I did even at the US Open, so that has to be a positive.\"Before the US Open final I was unbelievably nervous and was doubting myself a lot. I didn't go on the court today having those doubts. I went on the court and felt pretty calm from the beginning.\"I was obviously still nervous, but I think I felt more at home in a match like that on a court like that, playing for a Grand Slam title.\"The first few times I played for a Grand Slam, at the US Open and here, I definitely struggled with it. Now I feel more comfortable.\"There was certainly no shame in losing to Djokovic, who underlined his status as the world's best player by becoming the first man in the Open era to win three consecutive Australian Open titles.The 25-year-old Serb has won four of his six Grand Slam titles on these courts.Murray has now lost five of his six Grand Slam finals, but three were against the greatest player ever in Federer and two have been against Djokovic, who is rapidly joining the ranks of the all-time best.That is the downside of playing in one of the greatest eras in men's tennis. Even in Federer's early days the Swiss won Grand Slam finals against the likes of Mark Philippoussis (world No 48), Marat Safin (No 86) and Marcos Baghdatis (No 54); now it has almost become the norm for two of the world's top four to reach every Grand Slam final.Djokovic is one of the few players who appears to get stronger the longer a match goes on and the world No 1 took full advantage of Murray's physical difficulties.It was clear that the Scot was suffering in the latter stages with both a tight hamstring and a blistered foot. He had tweaked the hamstring during his victory over Federer on Friday night, which at four hours was the longest match he had played since the US Open.\"It's just a bit sore when you're running around, but it's not something that stops you from playing,\" Murray said.\"That's what happens with fatigue. You get sore, you get tired. You don't feel perfect when you step on the court every single time.\"When you play the rallies like we did tonight, along with the match with Roger, that's what happens. It's part and parcel of playing these big events against the best players in the world. With how physical the game is just now, that's just part of it.\"At the end of the second set Murray sent for the trainer to treat a blister on his right foot.It was clear for the rest of the match that he was suffering whenever he had to stop or change direction. He did not chase down drop shots as effectively as he usually does and when driven out wide he struggled to return the ball with his usual venom.\"There are certain things that hurt when you run or hit the ball, especially blisters, but it's not something that stops you from playing or stops you from running for balls,\" he insisted.\"Ninety per cent of the players on the tour will have played this tournament with some sort of blister or problem. It had no bearing at all on the result.\"Murray said he also had no complaints about the scheduling, which gave him one day less than Djokovic to prepare for the final, although he added: \"Anyone who watches the game will know that in any sport if you have longer to recover from matches then the better obviously.\"Djokovic, who within four hours of victory was on a flight back to Europe to prepare for Serbia's Davis Cup tie in Belgium next weekend, said that he had served better in the first two sets than he had in any match in the last two years.He added: \"I tried to be more aggressive, so I went for my shots, especially in the third and fourth, and came to the net quite often. I needed to be the one who dictates the play.\"Ivan Lendl, Murray's coach, insisted that his man had had a very good tournament and was continuing to improve.\"It's disappointing not to win but you just have to keep putting yourself in those situations and some of them will come your way eventually,\" Lendl said.","Nicolas Sarkozy, the former French president, held a secret meeting in November 2010 which influenced the decision by football\u2019s governing body to award the 2022 football World Cup to Qatar, it was alleged.In a 20-page investigation headlined \u201cQatargate\u201d, the respected magazine France Football said that \u201cacts of collusion and corruption\u201d shaped the much-criticised FIFA decision to award the 2022 competition to the tiny, oil-rich Gulf state.Among the alleged \u201cacts of collusion\u201d, the magazine listed a secret meeting called by President Sarkozy at the Elys\u00e9e Palace on 23 November 2010. Ten days later \u2013 to worldwide astonishment \u2013 Qatar was chosen by a FIFA executive committee meeting in Zurich to host the World Cup in June-July 2022, despite summer temperatures in the Gulf of up to 50C.Mr Sarkozy\u2019s lunch guests included the crown prince of Qatar, Tamin bin Haman al-Thani, Michel Platini, president of the European Football Association (EUFA), and a representative of the investment fund which owned the then struggling French football club, Paris Saint-Germain (PSG).France Football said that Mr Platini \u2013 a star of the France team of the 1980s \u2013 came under pressure at the lunch to switch his vote from the United States to Qatar. In exchange, the magazine alleged, the Qataris discussed the possibility that they would buy Paris Saint-Germain and create a new TV sports channel in France to compete with Canal Plus, a channel that Mr Sarkozy loathed. Before he became president in 2007, Mr Sarkozy was a match-going PSG fan. The magazine did not directly allege that a deal was struck at this meeting but said \u201call the elements\u201d were \u201cdiscussed\u201d.In 2011, the Qatari state investment fund paid \u20ac50m for PSG. Last year, the Qatari-owned Al-Jazeera TV company created a French sports channel beIN Sport after paying \u20ac150m for the rights to screen French football until 2016.Mr Platini has admitted before that Mr Sarkozy asked him to switch his vote. He issued a statement angrily denying this was part of a deal involving PSG. \u201cTo say that my choice... was part of a deal between the French state and Qatar is pure speculation... and lies,\u201d he said. \u201cI do not rule out legal action against anyone who casts doubt on the honesty of my vote.\u201dMr Sarkozy\u2019s office did not comment on the story.The award of the 2022 World Cup to Qatar was greeted with derision in much of the football world. France Football says there is growing pressure for the decision to be reversed.A US lawyer, Michael Garcia, appointed last year as FIFA\u2019s chief ethics investigator, has accumulated preliminary evidence of corrupt influence on both the 2018 and 2022 World Cup decisions, France Football reported. England bid for the 2018 competition but was eliminated in the first round of voting. Russia won in the final vote.There are also growing doubts about Qatar\u2019s ability to deliver its promise to reduce the temperature during matches to 20C. Some senior football officials, including Mr Platini, are campaigning for the 2022 World Cup to be shifted to November-December.One of the few international figures to have consistently supported the choice of Qatar is Mr Sarkozy. Just after the FIFA vote in 2010, he said: \u201cSport does not belong to a few countries. It belongs to the world... I don\u2019t understand those who say that events should always be held in the same countries and the same continents.\u201d","It did Jimmy Payne no favours to be described as \"the Merseyside Matthews\". The Bootle-born Liverpool right winger was a high-quality performer, an enchanting dribbler who could thrill the Kop on his day, leaving a trail of dazed and confused would-be markers in his wake. But he was never remotely on a par with the extraordinary Stanley, who at his peak was deemed the best footballer in the world, and the younger man could have done without unrealistically raised expectations.Payne touched his own prime midway through the 20th century, appearing for the Anfield Reds in the 1950 FA Cup final defeat by Arsenal, shortly before enjoying a trio of international outings on an England \"B\" tour of Europe. But it was his misfortune to be part of a Liverpool side on the threshold of a debilitating decline which would culminate in relegation to the Second Division.The diminutive winger joined the Reds as an amateur in 1942 and turned professional in 1944, but did not make his senior entrance until September 1948, in a 1-0 home defeat by Bolton Wanderers. A month later he scored his first goal, a late equaliser against Chelsea at Anfield, and thereafter he became a regular, linking productively with his inside-right, Jack Balmer, and proving adept at picking out the penetrative runs of the Scottish powerhouse Billy Liddell on the opposite wing.Payne contributed sparkily during Liverpool's progress to Wembley in 1950, scoring in the third-round replay victory over Blackburn Rovers and the fourth-round win against Exeter City, but in the final he could make little headway in his personal duel with the Welsh international full-back Walley Barnes as the Gunners prevailed 2-0. Still, his impressive work throughout the campaign earned him his international call-up and he had his backers for a full cap, but in an era when Matthews and Preston North End's majestic Tom Finney held sway, there were precious few England opportunities for other wide men.At club level, though, Payne continued to thrive until an ill-judged temporary change of position dented his confidence. Initially he had been embraced by Liverpool fans as one of their own, winning respect for his physical bravery and acute football intelligence \u2013 he had an instinct for knowing the precise moment to deliver a cross or through-pass \u2013 as much as his array of ball skills.However, when the new manager Don Welsh, seeking more creativity following a run of poor results midway through the 1951-52 season, switched him to inside-left, he began to attract flak from the terraces and stands. Payne lacked the stamina for the demanding box-to-box role, in which he was unable to take periodic breathers, as he could do when hogging the touchline, and although he was subsequently returned to the wing he was never again quite the same attacking force.Meanwhile Liverpool were slowly sinking, to 17th place in the top flight in 1952-53, then to rock-bottom in 1953-54. During that calamitous season Payne missed a lot of games through injury, and there was also meaningful competition for his place from the younger Brian Jackson, who had been recruited from Leyton Orient.In the Second Division Payne continued to be plagued by niggling fitness problems and shared right-wing duties with Jackson until he returned to the First Division with Everton, whom he had supported as a boy, in a \u00a35,000 deal in April 1956. He had made 245 senior appearances and scored 42 goals for the Reds.Sadly, injuries prevented any chance of a major impact at Goodison Park and in 1957 he retired at the premature age of 31 to work in the family newsagents in his native Bootle before becoming a hotelier in the Lake District. Payne left behind him memories of a worthy career, but also the nagging notion that he had never quite fulfilled the rich potential that had been evident in his early twenties.James Bolcherson Payne, footballer: born Bootle, Merseyside 10 March 1926; played for Liverpool 1944-56, Everton 1956-57; married (one daughter, one son); died Kendal, Cumbria 22 January 2013.","Clare Balding has landed her own chatshow which will see her interview some of the biggest names in sport.The broadcaster, who was widely praised for her role in front of the cameras during the 2012 Olympics, will present the weekly show on the BT Sport channel.She said: \"I'd like to thank BT for giving me the opportunity to present my own magazine style programme in which I can interview iconic sports stars and discuss newsworthy and stimulating topics. I'm enthused by BT's vision for sports coverage in the future and particularly their support of women's sport, an issue about which I feel very strongly. This is an exciting new venture for me and I can't wait to get started.\"Balding will continue working with the BBC as well as presenting Channel 4's racing coverage alongside the new BT show which has a working title of Clare Balding Presents.BT has recently moved into sports broadcasting and has won the rights to show 38 live games a season from the Barclays Premier League, including 18 of the top clashes, for three years from this August.Its new channel, BT Sport, has also signed deals to show live rugby union games and women's tennis.PA","Teenage Barclays Premier League star Raheem Sterling has been charged with assaulting a woman.The 18-year-old Liverpool and England winger was summonsed to Liverpool Youth Court today on a charge of common assault.The Jamaica-born footballer, who lives in Woolton, Liverpool, did not attend the hearing and solicitor Mick Hogan appeared on his behalf.Police said a 27-year-old woman, who is known to the footballer, suffered \"slight\" facial injuries during an alleged incident in Toxteth, Liverpool, on November 2.During today's short hearing Mr Hogan told the court that Sterling denies the allegation.He said the alleged offence took place when the footballer was 17 but, as he turned 18 in December, the matter should be transferred to the adult courts.Mr Hogan said: \"I do have instructions to the effect that Mr Sterling will be pleading not guilty to this charge.\"He is aware of today's hearing and the club are very supportive.\"The move to the adult courts was supported by the prosecution and Chairman of the Bench Brian Upton adjourned the matter to Liverpool Magistrates' Court on February 22.Sterling made his senior international debut for England last November against Sweden and has earned plaudits for his performances for Liverpool this season.PA","Liverpool winger Raheem Sterling has been charged with assaulting a woman. Police say the 27-year-old woman, who is known to the footballer, was injured during the incident in November in Liverpool.The 18-year-old Sterling, who made his England debut in November, did not attend a hearing at Liverpool Court yesterday. But Sterling's lawyer, Mick Hogan, said that the player denies the allegation and will be pleading not guilty.Despite the alleged offence taking place when Sterling was 17, the case is being moved to the adult courts and was adjourned until 22 February.Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers was in court yesterday, attending the trial of his son on sexual assault charges.Rodgers' assistant Colin Pascoe yesterday revealed new signing Philippe Coutinho will not be in the squad for Liverpool's trip to Manchester City. The 20-year-old Brazilian has briefly returned to Milan after his switch from Inter and will not return until next week.However, Pascoe is in no doubt that the midfielder is a perfect fit for Liverpool. \"What we have got there is a young talent who has played a lot for Internazionale and Espanyol,\" said Pascoe. \"He is a young lad but what we have seen of him he can handle this type of pressure and he will be a good asset for us.\"","You wondered where they all were on Monday morning \u2013 those young Liverpool players who had awoken to their first experience of the manager giving it to them, both barrels, through the pages of the newspapers. \"It's a great season for learning here and if they don't learn, they won't be here,\" Brendan Rodgers had declared for the whole world to see, ruminating on the catastrophic FA Cup defeat at Oldham, and a sense of empathy about what those words must have looked like to 19-year-old Andre Wisdom is rendered all the more acute when we meet. \"I'm Andre,\" he says, extending a hand. He hasn't even yet reached that stage in his career when no one needs to be told.It rapidly becomes clear, however, that the 19-year-old doesn't need empathy or sympathy, thank you very much, and that if anything he feels that Rodgers is entitled to dish out more of that kind of stick. \"He could criticise us that way more often,\" the defender volunteers. \"Yeah maybe he should say more that we need to win these type of games.\" Wisdom has been a topic of conversation in Liverpool and England circles for a while \u2013 and has captained the under-18s of both \u2013 but he is not one of those hot-housed young players who have spent forever in the Academy system. In the place where he has done his growing up, stick is given and taken in equal measure and the narrow margins between life making or breaking you help you appreciate fast enough how the right kind of criticism is a ticket out of here.\"Here\" is the Chapeltown district of Leeds \u2013 an uncompromising place where \"there are no in-betweens,\" according to Manchester City's Micah Richards, who also hails from the neighbourhood \u2013 with its unprepossessing back-to-backs and 10 per cent male youth unemployment. Wisdom was brought up a few streets away from Richards, whose City side he will face at the Etihad Stadium tomorrow, and like all the boys in that place belonged to the youth football scene, centred on the Prince Philip youth centre and the \"Rec\" fields, where Richards' father, Lincoln, is a driving force.But Wisdom, like all the others, is also only too aware of the story of Daniel Nelson, Richards' close friend, who wandered down the wrong path and wound up taking his own life in a young offenders' institution, at the age of 18. \"I heard about Daniel,\" Wisdom says. \"It's hard when you are growing up in a place where there are a lot of distractions and negative things around you. There's poverty there and I'll say that proudly. But there are a lot of people in the area doing positive things to try and overcome that and not fall into 'the trap', as we call it\u2026\"He mirrors Richards in so many ways, not least the kind of physique that led Rodgers to observe of him three months back that \"Andre Wisdom can take on the world. He's built like a boxer\", but also in his rapid progression from street footballer to the big time. Wisdom was still playing parks football at the age of 14, despite following Richards through the Leeds City Boys ranks and spending intermittent spells at Leeds United, where Richards was another one they let get away. Wisdom was 14 when Bradford City spotted him and brought him into a youth system that has also produced Tom Cleverley, Aston Villa's Fabian Delph \u2013 and was at Rafael Benitez's Liverpool within six months, learning from the Academy's Dave Shaddon, Hughie McAuley and, the much-missed Gary Ablett, who ran the reserve team who won their league for two years running.But while contact with Richards is fairly minimal \u2013 so, too, with Aaron Lennon, another product of those streets \u2013 they share a willingness to speak their mind. Wisdom's big passion is the mixed martial arts Ultimate Fighting Championship. He would probably fancy competing if football had not taken him down this course. And though he is joking when he says that it's \"a man's sport, not like all this football falling over when someone's got a bit of a kick on the shin\", he looks and sounds like someone who will be a captain one day.When he left behind his British Jamaican family in Chapeltown, including uncles who would take him to the game and \"nan\" who'd pay his subs, his football svengali was Rodolfo Borrell, whose low profile belies his vast significance as Academy director at Liverpool. With his exhortations to Wisdom, Conor Coady, Suso, Raheem Sterling and others to move the ball fast when they could, but to play a different, more physical way when required, Borrell was the one who \"turned me from a boy to a man\", Wisdom says.Not that it made a whole world of difference when a 15-year-old Wisdom came up against a 17-year-old by the name of Jack Wilshere, whom he had only seen on YouTube, in the 2009 FA Youth Cup Final. \"It's like he was in third gear and then \u2013 phew \u2013 something happened!\" Wisdom recalls of the Emirates first leg where Arsenal sealed their 6-2 aggregate win. \"I don't know what happened! I'd heard of him before that, but you see a few YouTube clips and think 'Is he jammy? Is he not?' He's the best player I've played against, actually.\" Wisdom's Arsenal opponents were all two years older than him and it was a year later that he was captaining Liverpool's under-18s, before winning the European Championship with England's under-17s. His part with Stuart Pearce's under-21s began a year before Rodgers handed him his debut \u2013 a goalscoring role in Liverpool's 5-3 Europa League win at Young Boys last September.For Wisdom, as for all Rodgers' fledgling players, the season in which Martin Kelly's long-term injury has seen him become an integral part of the first team, has not been without its challenges. There was a difficult afternoon at Goodison Park in October, for example. But he was strong at the Emirates when he encountered Wilshere again in Wednesday's 2-2 draw. \"His physicality and his attitude were his two big qualities,\" one of the backroom staff from the Benitez era says of Wisdom. \"Of all those kids, he was the most mentally strong.\"Though Benitez and his staff decided that Wisdom was a right-back, having not quite grown tall enough to continue in central defence, it has been Jamie Carragher who has deftly guided him, these past months. \"I remember one game he was on the bench and I looked across and he was telling me to 'push in' and 'drop back',\" Wisdom says. \"Whenever he's playing he's always talking, sometimes talking when he doesn't need to \u2013 which is great for me. No one's there to hurt you or knock your confidence or anything like that. He's got a way of expressing what he has to say in the right way.\"His education from Carragher appears to apply equally to the seriousness with which he regards captaincy, he and Coady having alternated in that role with Liverpool's reserves. \"You just have to be a leader on the pitch and be vocal in a way that the players appreciate,\" Wisdom says. \"You have to get your point across in the right way and try not to knock someone's confidence; command a respect in the team but not take it too much to make it arrogance.\"There's a Carragher-esque studiousness, too, about his observations on other players. His interest in Barcelona's Carles Puyol is born of their comparable builds and aggression. \"The physical side, the athleticism and the pace all do come into it, the defender's game, and it does help,\" he says. \"But tactically there are a lot of players who are not as quick and strong but have still had a very good career in the game. In the youth teams the physical part can help you get away with it. But beyond that level, you need more than physical capabilities. Tactically you have to be switched on.\"Borrell does not let Wisdom switch off. They speak every other day and there was a text message awaiting him after the 2-1 defeat at Old Trafford last month, pointing out that he had turned his back on a cross. \"That's good. As a player you need the positives but also the things you might not want to hear.\"The awfulness of Oldham \u2013 where, to be fair, Wisdom did little wrong \u2013 is still hard to explain, a week on. \"We didn't start with the wrong attitude,\" Wisdom says. \"It wasn't about their fitness. It's just on the day; 11 v 11. We didn't go on the pitch with a different attitude or think it would be a stroll in the park.\" His reticence to share what Rodgers said afterwards in the dressing room tells you that something was said. \"It's gone. We'll be better for it,\" he says. But no one is labouring under the illusion that the manager's newspaper talk was some confected strategy to makes the players listen. \"I think he is very open and honest with us as individuals,\" Wisdom says. \"I think he means everything he says.\"Andre Wisdom wears the new pearlised white, silver and black Speciali 4 Pro. Built for comfort and fit, the Speciali is Umbro's most iconic boot. umbro.comMy Other LifeI'm seriously into the Ultimate Fighting Championship and I like watching it on TV when I can. Me and my brother, we always used to wrestle and stuff but when I discovered that was fake I went for UFC and I love it. If you don't follow it, check out Anderson Silva. His fan base is unreal. And Jon \"Bones\" Jones is another one. Also Laurence Turead, who played Mr T in the A-Team, who they say is going to get involved with it. I like boxing too, but I think I'd find it a frustrating sport because having watched UFC I'd be tempted to kick someone \u2013 especially if I was losing a fight \u2013 or I'd have to use my hands like the UFC fighters. Serious sport!"]},{"x":0.187587506845068,"y":0.284365381488125,"no_docs":13,"words":[{"prob":0.00479973237073848,"word":"britain"},{"prob":0.000212511842546295,"word":"batteries"},{"prob":1.95721746223431e-05,"word":"aircraft"},{"prob":6.78561632078024e-05,"word":"world"},{"prob":0.00119365834420519,"word":"species"},{"prob":0.000540884627831345,"word":"european"},{"prob":4.40930377271681e-05,"word":"boeing"}],"docs":["Fifty of the world\u2019s most advanced and expensive flying machines are standing idle after America\u2019s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an order grounding the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.It issued an Emergency Airworthiness Directive \u201cto prevent damage to critical systems and structures\u201d.The move follows two incidents in which faulty lithium-ion batteries caused a small fire and smoke, both on 787s operated by Japanese carriers. One incident took place on the ground, while the other was in flight and led to an emergency landing and evacuation.While the FAA\u2019s instruction is directly addressed only to United \u2013 the sole US operator of the Dreamliner \u2013 other aviation authorities and individual airlines followed normal procedure and also complied.Boeing\u2019s chairman, Jim McNerney, said: \u201cWe are confident the 787 is safe and we stand behind its overall integrity. Boeing deeply regrets the impact that recent events have had on the operating schedules of our customers.\u201dAs engineers and safety officials try to remedy the perceived fire risk, the blame game has begun. Attention is focusing on Boeing\u2019s decision to outsource much of the work on the new jet. The Seattle Times columnist, Jon Talton, wrote: \u201cI never understood the radical outsourcing of the 787 Dreamliner, an experiment that proved to be costly, inefficient and now dangerous.\u201dThe grounding has had an immediate effect on the operations of the eight airlines that have so far put the 787 into service. Qatar Airways, the only airline serving the UK with a Dreamliner, appears to have dropped its daily 787 link between Heathrow and Doha, with no alternative aircraft replacing it. The airline\u2019s chief executive, Akbar Al Baker, said: \u201cOur staff are assisting all affected passengers to be accommodated on other flights.\u201dJapan Airlines has cancelled all flights between Tokyo and San Diego for the next week, and replaced the 787 on other routes with Boeing 777s.Poland\u2019s LOT airline had just completed its first transatlantic service, from Warsaw to Chicago, when the order came through. It was forced to cancel the return trip.Three UK airlines \u2013 British Airways, Thomson and Virgin Atlantic \u2013 have ordered the Dreamliner, but none have been delivered. Thomson is due to receive its first 787 next month, and to deploy it on transatlantic service in May from East Midlands, Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester.Some passengers booked to fly on the jet have expressed concern over the grounding. Arthur Cairns of Glasgow, who has a holiday booked in Florida flying on the first Dreamliner, said: \u201cI am not happy with present situation regarding safety. We are due to pay our balance in fortnight but don\u2019t wish to travel on this plane.\u201dA spokesman for Thomson said that the airline expected the 787 to be delivered and to enter service as planned, with no special dispensation for passengers already booked: \u201cNormal booking conditions apply.\u201d","Celebrities including Yoko Ono, her son Sean Lennon and actress Susan Sarandon were in Pennsylvania today for an \u201canti-fracking\u201d tour.Members of \u201cArtists Against Fracking\u201d were taking a look at areas where the extraction of natural gas by hydraulic fracturing is carried out.\u201cNot everyone knows how dangerous it is. Your drinking water is at stake. Over 600 toxic chemicals and hydrocarbons get injected into the ground that leak into aquifers,\u201d said Lennon. \u201cThen there\u2019s the question of [them] being released into the atmosphere.\u201d","The head of Boeing's bitter rival, Airbus, has backed the safety standards of the US aircraft manufacturer despite the grounding of Dreamliners due to fire fears over their batteries.At Airbus's annual results in Toulouse today, its chief executive, Fabrice Br\u00e9gier, insisted that both companies, which run a duopoly in commercial aircraft, were committed to tough safety standards.Aviation authorities across the globe had just ordered Dreamliners to stop flying, due to incidents of smoke damage caused by lithium ion batteries \u2013 which Airbus also uses in some of its aircraft.Mr Br\u00e9gier said: \"I think both Boeing and Airbus give the same priority to safety. I wish my colleagues at Boeing all the best because aircraft are supposed to fly.\"He also insisted that the order to keep Dreamliners on the ground demonstrated that the industry took strong precautions when there are \"any doubts\" and showed that air transport was committed to safety.Mr Br\u00e9gier's comments came as he confirmed forecasts that Airbus, which is owned by pan-European group EADS, had been badly outsold in commercial aircraft in 2012. After five years of having the bragging rights over Boeing, Airbus sold just 914 aeroplanes to more than 1,200 for Seattle-based Boeing.However, Airbus only targeted 650 fresh orders after record sales in 2011, when it launched the fuel-efficient Neo model well ahead of Boeing's rival, known as the Max.Airbus did have a record year for the number of aircraft it actually delivered, at 588, and a target of 600 has been set for 2013. There are 7,500 Airbus aeroplanes in operation today, with the most expensive, the A380-800, selling for an average of more than $400m (\u00a3250m) a pop.Airbus's chief operating officer, Gunter Butschek , told The Independent that improved corporate governance at EADS could eventually translate into increased sales.Following EADS's failure to merge with British defence group BAE Systems last year, when the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, blocked the deal, EADS is altering its share structure so that it is free from political interference. Mr Butschek said this would make Airbus \"simpler, more agile\", and better sales could be a \"secondary, knock-on effect\".","It's likely that burning lithium ion batteries on two Boeing 787 Dreamliners were caused by overcharging, aviation safety and battery experts said, pointing to developments in the investigation of the Boeing incidents as well as a battery fire in a business jet more than a year ago.An investigator in Japan, where a 787 made an emergency landing earlier this week, said yesterday the charred insides of the plane's lithium ion battery show the battery received voltage in excess of its design limits.The similarity of the burned battery from the All Nippon Airways flight to the burned battery in a Japan Airlines 787 that caught fire Jan. 7 while the jet was parked at Boston's Logan International Airport suggests a common cause, Japan transport ministry investigator Hideyo Kosugi said.\"If we compare data from the latest case here and that in the U.S., we can pretty much figure out what happened,\" Kosugi said.In the case of the 787 in Boston, the battery in the plane's auxiliary power unit had recently received a large demand on its power and was in the process of charging when the fire ignited, a source familiar with the investigation of the 787 fire in Boston told The Associated Press. The plane had landed a short time earlier and was empty of passengers, although a cleaning crew was working in the plane.The source spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to speak publicly.The Federal Aviation Administration issued an emergency order Wednesday temporarily grounding the six 787s belonging to United Airlines, the lone U.S. carrier operating Boeing's newest and most technologically advanced airliner. The Japanese carriers already had grounded their 787s, and airlines and civil aviation authorities in other countries followed suit, shutting down all 50 Dreamliners that Boeing has delivered so far.Boeing said Friday it will stop delivering new 787s to customers until the electrical system is fixed. However, production is not stopping. The plane is assembled in Everett, Washington, and North Charleston, South Carolina. The aircraft maker has booked orders for more than 800 of the planes from airlines around the world attracted by its increased fuel efficiency.A battery fire in a Cessna Citation CJ4, a business jet, prompted the Federal Aviation Administration in October 2011 to issue an emergency order requiring the lithium ion batteries in all 42 of the jets in operation at that time to be replaced with a conventional nickel-cadmium or lead-acid battery. The fire occurred while the plane was hooked up to a ground power station at Cessna's aircraft completion center in Wichita, Kansas. Normally, that would cause an aircraft battery to automatically start charging, experts said.A letter from Cessna to CJ4 owners after the incident cautioned: \"Do not connect a ground power unit to the airplane if you have reason to believe the battery may be in a depleted state ... Do not leave the aircraft unattended with a ground power unit connected.\"The Citation was Cessna's first business jet with a lithium ion battery as its main battery, and the 787 is the first airliner to make extensive use of lithium ion batteries. But the two are vastly different in size and in other respects, including their electrical systems, making comparisons difficult. Their batteries also came from different makers. The reasons they overcharged are likely to be different, experts said.However, the three incidents \u2014 the two burned 787 batteries and the Citation fire \u2014 underscore the vulnerability of lithium ion batteries to igniting if they receive too much voltage too fast, experts said. Other types of batteries may overheat in those circumstances, but they are far less susceptible to starting a fire, they said.\"Other batteries don't go this wrong when you treat them this badly,\" said Jay Whitacre, an associate professor of materials science and engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. \"The overall story here is these batteries are full of flammable electrolyte and they will burn if they are mistreated and something goes wrong.\"There was one lithium ion battery fire during testing of the batteries while Boeing was working with FAA on certification of the 787, said Marc Birtel, a spokesman for the aircraftmaker.However, that fire was due to problems with the test rather than the batteries themselves, he said.\"There are multiple backups to ensure the system is safe,\" Birtel said. \"These include protections against over-charging and over-discharging.\"But John Goglia, an aviation safety expert and former National Transportation Safety board member, said, \"It certainly sounds like based on what has been released so far that we have an issue of the battery charger or some other source providing too much energy to the battery.\"He said too-rapid charging might cause the electrolyte fluid in the batteries to overheat, leak and catch fire.If the incidents are due to overcharging batteries, that might be good news for Boeing, Goglia said. A flaw in the aircraft's electronics that permits overcharging would likely be much easier to fix than having to replace the aircraft's lithium batteries with another kind of battery, he said.Another possibility is a manufacturing defect in the batteries themselves, Whitacre said. More than other types of batteries, lithium ion batteries rely on very thin sheets of material internally to separate the negative and positive poles. The slightest flaw can cause a short circuit, overheating the flammable electrolytes.\"It's a delicate ecosystem that you are creating inside it and you have to manufacture it with perfect integrity,\" Whitacre said. \"Then you have to keep it in the right voltage range and be very safe with its environmental conditions.\"Jim McNerney, Boeing's chairman, president and CEO, sent the company's employees a letter Friday expressing confidence in the 787 and vowing to return the plane to service. \"I remain tremendously proud of employees across the company for the decade of effort that has gone into designing, developing, building and delivering the most innovative commercial airplane ever imagined,\" he said.The attraction of lithium batteries is that they are significantly lighter than other types of batteries. That saves fuel, which is airlines' leading expense. They also charge faster and contain more energy. And they can be molded to fit into odd space on airplanes, which most other batteries cannot.The only other airliner using lithium batteries is the Airbus A380, which makes only limited use of the batteries for emergency lighting. However, Airbus is working on another airliner, the A350, expected to debut in 2014, that will make more extensive use of lithium batteries.Boeing's headaches with the 787's lithium batteries are likely to cause European safety officials and other regulators around the world to take a harder look at the new Airbus plane's batteries, safety experts said.\"I think they're going to have a learning experience here that probably is going to result in future modifications for anybody who wants to design an aircraft and use this type of battery technology,\" said Robert Fiegl, chairman of aeronautical science at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Arizona.The FAA, like aviation regulators in other countries, relies on the aircraft manufacturers to test their planes to make sure they are safe. FAA's certification engineers validate that testing and ensure that the level of safety meets FAA regulations. Boeing developed the safeguards for the 787s lithium batteries, but they had to win FAA's approval first.The safety certification for the design, manufacturer and assembly of the 787 \u2014 a process that requires FAA approval each step of the way \u2014 was different in some respects from other aircraft because the Dreamliner employs so many cutting-edge technologies, safety experts said.Besides its use of lithium batteries, the 787 is the first airliner whose structure is mostly made from composite materials rather than aluminum. The aircraft also relies to a greater extent than previous airliners on electronics to operate, rather than hydraulic or mechanical systems.\"You can go down the list of hardware on that plane where it's the first time it has been used on an airplane,\" said Paul Czysz, professor emeritus of aeronautical engineering at St. Louis University in St. Louis. \"With anything that's brand new and has never been used on an airplane before, you run the risk of being the first one to find out if it really works.\"The 787 was tested extensively both before and after its first test flight in 2009. The FAA said its technical experts logged 200,000 hours testing and reviewing the plane's design before it was certified in August 2011.Six test planes ran up some 4,645 flight hours. About a quarter of those hours were flown by FAA flight test crews, the agency said in 2011.","They sit in your garden pond, adding a bit of exotic charm \u2013 but they are deadly.\u00a0 And\u00a0 five popular aquatic plants will no longer be available from nurseries, as the threat they pose to Britain\u2019s environment is just too great.The five, all non-native species \u2013 meaning they come from other parts of the world \u2013 are water primrose, floating pennywort, parrot's feather, water fern, and Australian swamp stonecrop. All have the potential to cause immense damage if they escape into the wider aquatic environment here, choking watercourses and crowding out and killing other wildlife. And yesterday they were banned from sale.From next year, the Environment Minister Richard Benyon announced today, garden centres, nurseries and other horticultural retailers will have to stop selling them or face a fine of up to \u00a35,000 and possibly up to six months in prison.It is the first time that non-native plants have been banned from sale in Britain, and is a clear sign of the tightening-up of the precautionary regime against invasives, not least in the aftermath of last year\u2019s arrival from continental Europe of ash dieback disease, which partly came in on nursery plants, and is likely to kill all the ash trees in the UK, whatever the Government does.It is also part of a growing recognition that invasive species of all kinds, and the damage they cause to other ecosystems, now represent one of the four major threats to wildlife the world over, along with habitat destruction, pollution and overhunting.Britain has a huge number of non-natives species \u2013 if we use the definition of creatures and plants which have been introduced by humans since the end of the Ice Age, the total is more than 2,700 \u2013 but it is a smaller yet still significant\u00a0 number, introduced more recently by the processes of globalisation, which are causing problems.Three of the five banned plants are on the \u201ctop ten wanted list\u201d of the most damaging alien species produced by the Environment Agency eighteen months ago: water primrose and floating pennywort are numbers two and three on the list, while parrot\u2019s feather is number ten.\u00a0In the past they have been sold and planted in garden ponds, but have escaped into the wild taking over from native species and damaging some of our most sensitive habitats. The plants form dense mats in water, depleting oxygen and light availability, causing declines in the numbers of fish and other aquatic species; they also reduce access to waterways for boating and angling and increase flood risk which, taken together, can cost millions of pounds per year.Floating pennywort, which can grow up to eight inches a day, costs the British economy \u00a323.5 million per year, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said today, while invasive non-native species as a whole can mean a devastating outlay to the economy, costing \u00a31.7 billion to control.It is not just plants: many forms of wildlife, originating elsewhere, are now damaging the environment in Britain, from the harlequin ladybird from Asia, wiping out British ladybirds, to the \u201ckiller shrimp\u201d from Eastern Europe now threatening fish populations or the horse chestnut leaf-miner moth from the Balkans wreaking havoc with our conker trees. Deer\u00a0 such as the muntjac from China are threatening Britain\u2019s nightingales, as they destroy the woodland undergrowth in which the birds breed.Conservationists warmly welcomed the plant sale ban today. \u201cHeadlines about ash dieback were just the tip of the iceberg,\u201d said Carrie Hume, Head of Conservation Policy at the Wildfowl &amp; Wetlands Trust. \u201cThe truth is that British nature is under relentless attack from a whole host of invasive plants and pathogens that are freely imported and cultivated for sale.\u201cThankfully, some of the most destructive non-native plants will no longer be on sale in our garden centres. This is the right move. The environmental and economic cost of dealing with this problem is already huge and dealing with it now is a great saving for the future.\u201dMatt Shardlow, Chief Executive of Buglife, the Invertebrate Conservation Trust, said the ban was \u201cfantastic news\u201d. He said: \u201cIt is long overdue. It is part of a process of recognising that foreign trade in wild plants has sever implications for biodiversity.\u201dBritain is one of the few countries actually to have a formal non-native species strategy, which maintained by the GB non-native species secretariat, based in York.\u00a0 The strategy, in place since 2008, seeks to prevent new problems by a system of risk assessment of potentially dangerous species; it will be reviewed by the Government later this year.In the meantime, the European Union is expected soon to bring forward proposals for the first-ever EU non-native species legislation.","A building complex has collapsed into the ground in China.The sinkhole in China's southern Guangdong province swallowed up the complex and a nearby three-storey building as the land gave way.Luckily, residents were no longer living in either building when they fell and no one was hurt in the incident.","My kids can tell when it is a bad day for smog in Beijing. It seeps into the hall of our apartment building and they can taste it in the air \u2013 it\u2019s tangy, like an airborne mixture of oil and gas. Usually, we take a quick look out of our front window on to Jianguo Avenue, the thoroughfare that traverses central Beijing and is permanently full of cars, to test whether the air is clean enough for us to see the skyscrapers across the street. Today \u2013 when pollution readings were at such hazardous levels that they had risen above the scale used to measure them \u2013 all we could see were clouds of pollution.The smog was so thick that more than 50 flights were cancelled at Beijing Capital International Airport, causing chaos ahead of Chinese New Year, when city-dwellers travel to see relatives. Despite warnings from the authorities not to venture outside, we decided to don our pollution masks and take a quick trip to the shops. The warnings are increasingly common but are not observed by most residents who cannot afford \u2013 or stand \u2013 to spend days confined to their homes.Our masks are white Totobobo masks, from Japan, and we each have one tailor-cut to fit our face. My\u00a0 10-year-old son Fred likes to wear his so he can pretend he is the character Bane from the Batman film The Dark Knight Rises. He does a great impression of the actor Tom Hardy\u2019s respirator-garbled voice. \u201cIt is easier to crush Gotham than it is to solve the pollution problem in Beijing!\u201d he says. My daughter Anna, four, finds her mask annoying but she knows it is important to put up with it.On the street in the Sanlitun shopping district, we spotted a salesman with a big box of masks doing a brisk trade. There is a limited number of\u00a0 official suppliers selling pollution masks that are recognised as being of high quality, and as most are running out of supplies, the trade in lower-quality fakes is booming.A trip out in the smog is rare for our family: my partner and I usually don\u2019t let our children go out when the readings are very high. But \u201cvery high\u201d is also a relative term. We have become aficionados of the China Air Quality mobile phone app, which displays data collected by the US Embassy in the Chinese capital.The Air Quality Index it uses gives a reading according to how many particulates of less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter (PM2.5), which are believed to pose the largest health risks, are in the air.The AQI was at 500 for much of the day \u2013 the highest and most hazardous level on the scale, suggesting that the air quality may have been even worse. The World Health Organisation recommends 20 as a healthy level.These tiny PM2.5 particles are of particular concern \u201csince they are small enough to directly enter the lungs and even the blood stream\u201d, according to the US Embassy\u2019s website, and they are known to cause lung cancer, bronchitis and asthma. Thankfully, our children have not suffered any ill health as a result of exposure to pollution, but our neighbours\u2019 kids suffer from asthma and repeated cases of bronchitis. We insist that our children wear their masks when they go out, and we also make sure they spend at least a month out of Beijing every year in a clean-air environment. I developed mild asthma because of the smog a few years ago, which thankfully appears to have ebbed, though I do worry that it will come back.For years, the Chinese government insisted on referring to the smog as \u201cfog\u201d and released unrealistically low air-quality readings. Now, the\u00a0 official data has become more reliable and the government calls it \u201csmog\u201d, but this has only left local people even more concerned that the situation is far worse than is reported. The World Bank reckons that 16 of the world\u2019s 20 most-polluted cities are in China. The China Air Quality app gives subscribers the opportunity to see which cities are the worst every day. While Beijing feels as though it should be top of the list to us, it is often far down the list. Late in the evening, Shijiazhuang, one of the worst serial offenders, was \u201cbeyond index\u201d, while Sanya in the south, on Hainan island \u2013 known for having the cleanest air in China \u2013 displayed a reading of just 22.Coal-fired power stations account for more than 70 per cent of China\u2019s energy production, while nearly 20 million vehicles were sold across the country last year, making it the world leader in car sales. Sometimes it seems as it they are all driving up and down outside our window.Many of the new cars should have low emissions, but the problem is that the sulphur content of vehicle fuel is very high. In Beijing, personal and public vehicles contribute the largest portion of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and other pollutants to the\u00a0 atmosphere. Heavy, polluting industrial plants were moved outside the city, but only as far as the foot of surrounding hills, where the smog does not disperse easily and often blows back in to choke us.Ma Jun, a Beijing-based environmentalist and founder of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, told\u00a0 the Global Times newspaper there were more steps the government could take to ease the smog with immediate effect. \u201cDust from construction sites can be decreased if the government puts more efforts into supervision, and factory [emissions] should be improved,\u201d said Ma.Authorities said they would take emergency measures to curb the pollution levels in Beijing, halting production at 103 high-emissions companies, while government agencies and state-owned firms were ordered to cut vehicle use by 30 per cent before Thursday, when it is believed that the air should begin clear. \u2013 until the next time the reading goes \u201cbeyond index\u201d, that is.","Boeing has attempted to put on a brave front, despite the dark cloud hanging over its new 787 Dreamliner, as it posted better-than-expected earnings and told investors it did not anticipate any significant financial impact from the grounding of the jets.Aviation watchdogs in the US and Japan are still trying to get to the bottom of problems with the planes' lithium-ion batteries, two of which burnt out earlier this year. The planes were then grounded by regulators.Boeing said it was continuing to produce the planes, although it had suspended deliveries. The company, which said booked earnings of $1.28 per share for its fourth quarter, above hopes of around $1.19, expects to deliver 60 Dreamliners this year.Although it added 2013 forecasts assumed \"no significant impact\" from the 787 woes, chief executive Jim McNerney said the group was focused on resolving the problems.","Hundreds of seabirds have been washed up along the south-west coast, covered in an unidentified sticky white substance.Attempts to clean the birds, mainly guillemots, have been hampered by not knowing what the substance is, the RSPB says. More than 100 birds have been taken to a rescue centre in Taunton but some of them have died.The birds are \"not responding well\" to cleaning techniques normally used to remove oil, the charity says.","Some of Britain\u2019s most beautiful moths, such as the stunning garden tiger moth, have crashed in numbers over the past 40 years as part of a widespread decline, a new report reveals today.Two-thirds of common and widespread larger species (macro-moths) have declined in that time, with losses in abundance much greater in the southern half of Britain than the north, according to the report by the charity Butterfly Conservation, and the agricultural research institute, Rothamsted Research.Three species have become extinct in the past decade, while some once common garden species such as the garden tiger, the V-moth, and the spinach have decreased by more than 90 per cent from 1968-2007 and now face the real threat of extinction in the future. reveals that the orange upperwing, the bordered gothic and the Brighton wainscot have all disappeared in the last 10 years, and these follow the extinctions of an additional 62 species during the 20th Century.The State of Britain\u2019s Larger Moths 2013The report is based on the Rothamsted Insect Survey, a continuous series of\u00a0 records running from 1968 to 2007 on common and widespread species, records which represent the longest running national population trends of insect species known anywhere in the world.It suggests that ongoing habitat loss and the deteriorating condition of the countryside are believed to be the major factors behind these declines.Some two-thirds of the species recorded declined over the 40-year study, with 37 per cent of them decreasing by at least 50 per cent.\u00a0 The garden tiger has fallen in numbers by 92 per cent, the spinach moth by 96 per cent and the v-moth by 99 per cent.The loss of tiger moths may be contributing the disappearance from southern Britain of cuckoos, which feed on their hairy caterpillars.In the southern half of Britain, larger moth populations decreased by an average of 43 per cent in comparison to an average 11 per cent decline in northern Britain. The reason for the disparity between the two regions is likely to be due to higher levels of habitat loss in the south and the beneficial effect of climate warming on some moths in the north.While moth populations have declined substantially in the last few decades, the period has also seen an unprecedented influx of new moth species to Britain.More than 100 species have been recorded for the first time in Britain this century and 27 species have colonised Britain from the year 2000 onwards. Climate change is seen as a major driver for these new colonisers as conditions become more suitable for continental species.\u201cThis report paints a bleak picture about Britain\u2019s biodiversity,\u201d said Butterfly Conservation Surveys Manager and lead author of the new report, Richard Fox. \u201cMuch has been made of the decline of butterflies and honey bees but moths represent the massive, but largely unnoticed diversity of insects that form the vast majority of animal life in Britain.\u201cThe severe declines of once common garden moths and overall decrease in moth abundance that we found are a damning indictment of how recent human activity has devastated our native wildlife.\u201dEU pesticides ban 'could save bees'Controversial nerve-agent pesticides, which are increasingly implicated in declines in bee populations around the world, may be partially banned in Europe.The proposal from Brussels to limit the use of neonicotinoids \u2013 powerful poisons which have made billions for agribusiness but are seen as a major wildlife hazard \u2013 is the most significant development yet in the movement to outlaw the chemicals, and was greeted enthusiastically by environmental campaigners. It follows evidence casting doubt on the safety of neonicotinoids, as highlighted by .The IndependentStudies in the past three years have shown that neonicotinoids have adverse effects on honey bees, although manufacturers such as Bayer and Syngenta continue to insist they are safe.The European Commission proposes banning their use on crops such as oil seed rape.Michael McCarthy","Britain's countryside and wildlife face a looming \"perfect storm\" of threats to environmental protection, conservationists warned tonight.The threats are headed by the possibility of massive cuts to EU funding for farmland wildlife schemes, which provides hundreds of millions of pounds annually to help British farmers look after the often-declining species on their land, from birds to butterflies to bumblebees.\u00a0The cuts may be outlined this week when EU leaders, including David Cameron, meet in Brussels to decide their budget for the next seven years \u2013 a budget which seems certain to be slashed.But also greatly concerning environmental campaigners is the real possibility that the Government\u2019s wildlife watchdog, Natural England, will be swept away and merged with the much bigger Environment Agency.If this happens, it will be the first time since 1949 that there will no longer be a dedicated official body acting as a champion for habitats and species.At the same time, local authorities are making swingeing cuts to their own environmental services and staff, an extensive new road-building programme is threatening valuable wildlife sites, and Conservative ministers are looking again at the possibility of undoing powerful EU wildlife laws which provide the strongest countryside protection of all in Britain.Any of these threats would concern wildlife lovers, but the fact that they are all coming together has senior conservationists seriously alarmed.\u201cWe may be witnessing the greatest shake-up in environmental protection for a generation,\u201d said Martin Harper, director of conservation at the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB).The greatest concern among environmentalists centres on possible EU funding cuts. Funding for agri-environment schemes from the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is the biggest single pot of money for wildlife protection available in Britain.About \u00a3450m is spent annually on these \u201cEnviron- mental Steward- ship\u201d schemes in England alone, 75 per cent of it coming directly from Brussels (with the rest put in by Whitehall), with another \u00a370m-plus spent on similar schemes in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.They have made a real difference in enabling farmers to repair much of the damage caused by intensification of agriculture \u2013 bringing back birds whose populations have been devastated, such as the skylark, and in particular the rare cirl bunting, whose recovery would have been otherwise impossible.But when EU heads of government meet in Brussels on Thursday they seem certain to reduce the Union\u2019s overall budget. Reduced funding for CAP is a likely consequence, with the parts of the programme that protect farmland wildlife particularly vulnerable. During the November budget negotiations, EU leaders discussed cuts of 13 per cent.Analysis by the RSPB, however, suggests cuts might be as much as 23 per cent over the whole budget period, which the society thinks could prove disastrous.The other threats are causing similar concern. The Government\u2019s public consultation exercise on the future of Natural England closes today and many observers think it will be swallowed by the Environment Agency, meaning the independent voice for wildlife and landscapes will disappear with the larger body.Local authority cuts to environment services and staff include proposals from Somerset County Council to cut the whole of its countryside service, and major losses of countryside rangers in London boroughs such as Ealing, Barking and Dagenham, while the Government\u2019s new roads programme will, according to the Campaign for Better Transport, impact on four National Parks, seven Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, 39 Sites of Special Scientific Interest, three National Nature Reserves, 54 ancient woodlands and 234 local wildlife sites.It is also clear that some members of the Government still wish to weaken the Habitats Regulations, which transpose EU wildlife laws \u2013 setting up Special Protection Areas and Special Areas of Conservation \u2013 into British law. These laws form the toughest environmental protection of all in the UK. In November 2011 the Chancellor, George Osborne, said the rules \u201cplace ridiculous costs on British business\u201d.In his major speech on Europe last month, Mr Cameron hinted that these rules might be on the table during his planned renegotiation of Britain\u2019s relationship with the EU: \u201cWe need to examine whether the balance is right in so many areas... including on the environment,\u201d he said.If the cap fits: EU wildlife fundingThe European Union money for wildlife matters enormously.The agri-environment schemes funded by the CAP have spread extensively, and latest figures show they now cover a record 6.5 million hectares of England, which is 70 per cent of the farmland. About 60,000 farmers take part in the schemes, which are split into the basic Entry Level Stewardship and the more ambitious (and better rewarded) Higher Lever Stewardship, both of which began in 2005.The HLS schemes in particular are making an enormous difference in bringing many species that had nearly vanished back to the countryside. The cirl bunting in Devon is one example, along with the marsh fritillary butterfly which is returning to parts of the West Country.","Government scaremongering about an imminent influx of Bulgarian and Romanian migrants could jeopardise David Cameron\u2019s attempt to renegotiate a new relationship with Europe, Bulgaria\u2019s Foreign Minister warned today.Nikolai Mladenov said the way in which the debate about Bulgarians coming to live and work in Britain was going it would \u201cdefinitely dampen the enthusiasm\u201d for co-operation between the two countries.Under EU rules citizens of both countries will gain full free movement of labour rights to live and work in the UK by the end of December 2013.But Mr Mladenov suggested the row over immigration could have other implications with Mr Cameron losing the backing of Eastern European countries to secure opt-outs from areas of EU law.He said he did not believe Britain should have \u201csome sort of a pick and choose relationship with Europe\u201d but had to be firmly engaged.\u201cI think everyone needs to understand that it is for the best benefit of all us that we stick together in Europe on the basis of the treaty commitments that we have and we collectively see how to address the effects of the economic crisis that we\u2019re all suffering,\u201d he said.Mr Mladenov also denied that large numbers of Bulgarians would chose to travel to Britain when the restrictions are lifted suggesting they would rather travel to Germany, Spain and Italy, where the country has stronger business links.\u201cI do not expect the UK to be overwhelmed by a wave of our nationals coming over seeking employment for a number of reasons.\u201d He said, \u201cWhen we look at the experience of other countries over the last seven years, this has not happened and there is no reason to believe that this would happen in the UK in the January of next year.\u201dThe Romanian ambassador to the UK Dr Ion Jinga also said that fears that many Romanians would come to the UK was a \u201cfalse problem\u201d.\u201cRomanians' immigration pattern is not towards the UK but towards Spain, Italy and France, because of the language proximity,\u201d he said.In an interview the former Prime Minister Tony Blair also criticised Mr Cameron\u2019s plans for a referendum on Britain\u2019s EU membership saying it was \u201can odd way of solving things\u201d.He added that Mr Cameron might find it difficult to get agreement for all other European leaders for change.\u201cIf you\u2019re saying this is about Britain\u2019s relationship with Europe as one vs 26, you better make sure that they\u2019re all lined up behind that.\u201cBecause if they\u2019re not, and any one of them say no, I can\u2019t really believe David Cameron thinks it\u2019s sensible to get out of Europe even if he doesn\u2019t achieve all of that agenda.\u201d","A man who hurled a plastic beer bottle to \u201cput off\u201d Usain Bolt at the start of the Olympic 100m final was today given a community order.Ashley Gill-Webb, 34, risked inflicting \"massive embarrassment on the country\" by attempting to delay the start of the Olympic showpiece as millions of people around the world watched on.Gill-Webb managed to sneak into the event before hurtling abuse at the competitors as they lined up in the starting blocks.Last month he was found guilty of public disorder at Stratford Magistrates' Court after attempting to disrupt the sprint final on August 5.And today, he appeared at Thames Magistrates' Court, where he was spared jail and given an eight-week community order.District Judge William Ashworth, told Gill-Webb, who has bi-polar disorder: \"Your intention was to target the highest profile event at the London Olympics and put off Usain Bolt.\"The potential harm of triggering a false start was significant. By good fortune you failed.\"You did however spoil the occasion for some spectators and tarnished the spirit of the Games.\"Gill-Webb's actions meant spectators, who had paid up to \u00a34,000 for a seat at the sell-out competition, had missed the showpiece race.Dutch judo champion and London 2012 70kg bronze medallist Edith Bosch who confronted Gill-Webb after he hurled the bottle said she had missed the race because of the incident.Gill-Webb, of South Milford, near Leeds, was found guilty of intending to cause 100m finalists harassment, alarm or distress by using threatening, abusive or disorderly behaviour, contrary to Section 4 of the Public Order Act.The judge told Gill-Webb: \"You suffer from bi-polar disorder. At the time of the offence you were in the throes of a manic episode. This made you over-confident and your behaviour risky.\"I have reduced your punishment to take account of the effects of your illness.\"As well as the eight week community order, Gill-Webb will be electronically monitored and live under a 7pm to 7am curfew. He was also ordered to pay a \u00a31,500 towards costs.His behaviour had been \"serious\" enough to demand punishment but he is unlikely to offend again, according to the judge.Gill-Webb tricked his way in to the Olympic Park in Stratford, east London, by using an old ticket to gain access to the stadium for the August 5 final, although when arrested police did not find a ticket on him.He hurled abuse at athletes, including world record holder Bolt, and then threw a bottle on to the track.It landed behind the lane markers and the world's top sprinters at the start of the blue riband event.Bolt, the world record holder, won in 9.63 seconds, ahead of Jamaican team mate and 2011 World champion Yohan Blake.The high-profile nature of the incident and the fact that the eyes of the world were watching were aggravating factors along with the location from which the bottle had been hurled, according to prosecutor Helen Shaw.It was a \"once-in-a-four year event watched by millions of people around the world,\" she said.\"Some of the people who were in that area missed the event and had paid up to \u00a34,000 a ticket.\"Tom Barley, mitigating, said Gill-Webb risked inflicting \"massive embarrassment on the country\".Mr Barley added: \"He would have looked like a drunken yob on that occasion.\"Noting that alcohol did not have any influence, Mr Barley suggested that for someone dealing with a mental illness \"it must have been the worst day for it to happen in the 100m final.\"The court heard Gill-Webb pushed his way to the front of an exclusive seating area at the stadium and started shouting: \"Usain, I want you to lose. Usain, you are bad, you are an arsehole\".He then threw the plastic beer bottle as the race started before being escorted from the stadium and arrested.Student Farzin Mirshahi heard him yell: \"Believe in Blake, no Usain\".Her brother, Kiya Mirshahi, heard: \"Usain, no, Justin, you are a druggie, believe in Blake, no Usain, no.\"Bolt and Blake later said they were unaware of the incident.Bronze medallist Gatlin said in media interviews: \"It was a little distraction and I didn't know what it was.\"But when you're in those blocks and the whole stadium's quiet, you can hear a pin drop.\"He said the incident had not affected the race: \"You just have to block it out and go out there and do what you got to do.\"Gill-Webb, who did not give evidence during his trial, originally denied throwing the bottle, but his DNA was later found on it.He later said he could not remember the incident.The father-of-two has since lost his job due to adverse publicity triggered by the case, and is being treated for his illness, the court heard.PA"]},{"x":0.0964652687876449,"y":0.163667811020924,"no_docs":18,"words":[{"prob":1.69269782435564e-05,"word":"london"},{"prob":8.32669573685763e-05,"word":"show"},{"prob":6.01071085177247e-05,"word":"people"},{"prob":1.69269782435564e-05,"word":"news"},{"prob":0.000524349202415213,"word":"tv"},{"prob":1.69269782435564e-05,"word":"world"},{"prob":5.8554100427304e-05,"word":"british"}],"docs":["The BBC issued an apology to viewers after a character in the popular children\u2019s show The Tweenies appeared dressed as Jimmy Savile.The episode, which was filmed in 2001 and was broadcast again on CBeebies this morning, showed the character of Max dressed as the disgraced late presenter in a blond wig and oversized chain necklace. The beloved Tweenie also spouted Savile catchphrase \u201cNow then, guys and gals\u201d during the offending scene, which sees him hosting a fictional music chart show.DJ and TV presenter Jimmy Savile, who died in 2011 aged 84, is accused of \u201cgrooming a nation\u201d and abusing hundreds of children during his 60-year career.The Tweenies was cancelled in 2003 but remains a children\u2019s favourite, which is regularly replayed on CBeebies, the BBC channel aimed at 4 to 6 year olds.Ofcom received complaints while parents took to Twitter to express their shock.\u00a0 Ruth Ellis tweeted \u201cNot sure the Jimmy Savile themed Tweenies episode on at the moment is entirely appropriate... @CBeebiesHQ\u201d.The BBC said: \u201cThis morning CBeebies broadcast a repeat of an episode of the Tweenies, originally made in 2001, featuring a character dressed as a DJ impersonating Jimmy Savile. This programme will not be repeated and we are very sorry for any offence caused.\u201d","Radio 4's plans to put Tony Harrison's expletive-filled poem V back on the air have rekindled memories of Mary Whitehouse \u2013 who denounced it as a \"work of singular nastiness\" when it was broadcast by Channel 4 in 1987.Mrs Whitehouse was the schoolmarm in horn-rimmed spectacles who hectored the British creative industries of the late 20th century over their loose morals. Her slap-round-the-legs reprobation was much sought after, for it guaranteed levels of press interest way beyond the gifts of a still nascent publicity industry.She set up the Clean Up TV Campaign and the National Viewers' and Listeners' Association, whose members were detailed to log down all occasions of sex on the box and dash off letters of complaint.But though she would be perturbed that Mr Harrison's verse was being celebrated, even Mrs Whitehouse (who died at the fine age of 91 in 2001) would struggle to characterise modern British television as filth.Today's TV scandals concern matters other than bad language, nudity and fornication. The recent meltdown at the BBC concerned shoddy journalistic standards and the suppression of material of sexual content, rather than its gratuitous broadcast. Channel 4 has been in the dock over claims of racism and bullying. ITV has been heavily fined for phone-in scandals.A recent study into audience attitudes conducted by the broadcasting watchdog Ofcom found that in 2005 some 36% of respondents believed there was \"too much\" sex on television and that number had fallen sharply to 25% by last year. The regulator said it was a \"significant decrease\". Television audiences are notoriously crabby \u2013 but some 66% conceded that the industry had levels of sex in programmes \"about right\".There have also been substantial falls in concerns about \"too much\" swearing (55% down to 37%) and violence (56% down to 36%). \"The results suggest that over time, attitudes towards the amount of sex, violence and swearing on TV have changed,\" said Ofcom, \"with the proportion of respondents stating 'about the right amount' having steadily increased since 2005 and the proportion stating 'too much' having declined.\"No longer does British television crave attention with crass shows such as Eurotrash or crude stunts such as Channel 5's Naked Jungle. Hosted by Keith Chegwin in 2000 that idea managed to provoke only a single complaint but was damned as the worst show of all time in a viewers' poll.Channel 4 attempted to address modern attitudes to sex when it launched the youth drama Skins in 2007. The seventh series begins in March but it has effectively run its course and will not be recommissioned.Today's equivalent of Mary Whitehouse is Vivienne Pattison, the director of Mediawatch-UK and a former publicist in the publishing industry.\"I think people are quite grown up about sex and when it's in context we can deal with it,\" she says, noting that complaints around the current BBC drama Ripper Street have focused on levels of violence and \"not that it is set in a brothel\".Is there a new maturity in British television \u2013 or is it something else? Crucially important, inevitably, is the internet \u2013 and the new proliferation of explicit sexual content. No broadcaster wants to be mistaken for an online porn merchant. \"The access that people have to porn on the net has changed things and I think it has left television not knowing how to respond,\" says Nick Mirsky, the deputy head of factual at Channel 4. \"There was a time, 15 years ago, when any programme about sex felt like it was breaking a taboo. Now there are no taboos.\"Channels are anxious not to appear grubby and so, in an era when television is able to explore other areas of human existence in minute detail, the most fundamental is at risk of being surrendered to the porn websites. \"The net leaves us with a challenge of how we deal with sex,\" admits Mirsky. Mrs Whitehouse's old ally in cleaning up the screens, the Daily Mail, has similarly redirected its tanks towards the new medium and is campaigning aggressively against internet porn.Yet while British broadcasters have become more restrained, the once prudish American television industry has been embracing sexual content as if it just discovered the pill. The Sky Atlantic show Girls is a new generation's Sex and the City but with more graphic sex. Another recent American series on Sky, House of Lies, starring Don Cheadle, contained \"a butt-load of the sort of sexual activity one can only get away with on pay-cable\", as American critic Ken Tucker put it. British television has enthusiastically hosted the two Spartacus series from the American cable network Starz. That show, starring British lead John Hannah, \"fetishes violence even more than it depicts sex and nudity, which is often\", commented the Boston Herald.And Homeland, a critically-acclaimed drama and a big winner at the Golden Globes last week, is equally raunchy. Its acquisition by Channel 4 brings kudos and also allows the British network to broadcast trails such as: \"Now on 4 tonight Homeland, which contains nudity, sexual scenes and strong language from the very start and throughout\". And then broadcast a sex scene seven minutes after the 9pm watershed.Clearly, some British broadcasters now feel confident about being more risqu\u00e9 if they acquire the content from across the Atlantic. Or maybe it's just that Americans do it better.The News of the People \u2013 a new Sunday read?It would be ironic if Trinity Mirror ends up championing the legacy of its old arch enemy, the defunct News of the World.A deal could shortly be concluded to rebrand the Sunday People as the News of the People, in an attempt to remind tabloid readers that the paper remembered for phone-hacking also landed exclusives which could set the agenda for the rest of the news media.An outside investment team, led by former Sunday Express editor Sue Douglas and former ITV commercial chief Rupert Howell, is ready to spend around \u00a310m for a 51% stake in the People, which is separate from the seven-day Mirror operation under editor-in-chief Lloyd Embley.For the hard-pressed People this would mean its editorial team of around 40 (plus 20 part-time workers) being increased to 75, a rare occurrence in modern newspapers. \"It's something with enormous potential which could be a trigger for putting great journalism and great stories back on the market,\" says Douglas.In return, the struggling paper would be expected to reflect the swagger of its old News International adversary. Several former News of the World staff have been sought out as potential recruits.But the former News of the World and Sun features editor Matt Nixson, who had been expected to be part of the plan, has joined the Daily Mail.Al-Jazeera reaches for the skyThe tragedy of the hostage crisis in Algeria has offered a new opportunity to Al-Jazeera English at a crucial time in the network's history.It found a way on to American television this month when the purchase of Al Gore's Current TV gave it an opportunity to circumvent US distributors who were previously reluctant to be seen doing business with the Emir of Qatar.Al-Jazeera English was named News Channel of the Year at last year's Royal Television Awards for its Arab Spring coverage. Last week's events demonstrate how the Arab world will continue to be at the centre of global news and AJE was the first major news organisation to convey news of the fated Algerian helicopter attack on the In Amenas gas plant.In London, one of AJE's four global hubs, the network's status is set to be given a lift with a studio presence inside The Shard, pictured, the 87-storey London skyscraper built with funding from the Qatar royal family. It would put the station's presenters about 120m higher up than Jeff Randall and his BSkyB colleagues in The Gherkin.Twitter: @iburrell","Of all the celebrities and media titans who provided evidence to the Leveson inquiry, Bill Gates wasn't among them. It's a shame. The nerdy Microsoft founder, who has been chosen by Jonathan Dimbleby to give the annual Richard Dimbleby lecture in London tomorrow evening, is not a news man. But he has shaped the modern media landscape and, as a philanthropist who operates around the globe, he has learned that news journalism needs to be encouraged and not curtailed. \"The world has not yet fully tapped the power of the media as a force for good,\" he said recently.Admittedly the latest news doesn't raise a smile. Murdered hostages in Algeria; war in Afghanistan and now Mali; the fragility of the countries supposedly liberated by the Arab Spring; and above all the nuclear crises in Iran and North Korea. Every bulletin and newspaper reminds us that the world is a scary place.But it's that very instability which Gates and like-minded thinkers believe demands the soothing balm of brave and uninhibited news services. It's a different narrative from the popular one in Britain, where the \"I blame the media\" mantra is recited for so many of society's shortcomings.Gates is now working with the London-based Thomson Foundation in training journalists in Kenya and Ghana. The Africa Means Business project, which he funds, builds bridges between economists and reporters so that business stories are covered accurately in language the public understands.The Thomson Foundation, situated near Fleet Street, celebrates its 50th anniversary this year. It is currently working in Bangladesh to train local reporters in investigative techniques so they can expose corruption in public life. It is also planning a conference in Libya to map out a new television industry in a country raised on Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's state propaganda. And it is helping the Egyptian online citizen journalism platform Hoqook, which came to prominence at the time of the Tahrir Square uprising, to build a lasting business model.The foundation was established at the height of the Cold War by Roy Thomson, a Canadian newspaper magnate who owned The Times and The Sunday Times before Rupert Murdoch. Thomson hoped to spread the best practice of the Western news media to authoritarian regimes.\"If he was alive today he would be astonished to realise that in some countries the work is only just beginning,\" says Nigel Baker, the foundation's chief executive. \"But 50 years on there are thousands of journalists who want training, the issue is the funding and capacity to do that.\"One might think autocratic states were wary of calling on the services of western media advisers. But Baker claims the North African uprisings have alarmed a lot of hardline governments. \"The Arab Spring has sent shudders to neighbouring countries and restrictive regimes all over the world,\" he says. \"They realise they now have to reform their media before it reforms them.\"For the past 28 years, the foundation, which supplies hands-on skills training from a pool of 200 British media experts, has been working in China, encouraging modern journalistic practices in the state news agency Xinhua, which operates a network of more than 100 bureaux around the world. \"I have been to China every year for 12 years and seen enormous changes with the subjects that can be reported,\" says Baker, a British veteran of the global Associated Press agency.The Foreign Office is another body that recognises the socio-political benefits of a free media. It is supporting a \"sensitive\" Thomson project in an Arab country where \"there is a desire to reform their media on all its platforms in print, TV and radio\" in the light of the Arab Spring.It's not simply a question of passing on advice on how to use the latest digital technology available in Britain. The media requirements of every country are different, says Baker. \"In many countries where state media existed there are people who are called journalists \u2013 but even the basic skills of asking questions are alien to them. They have been used to just processing the information handed down to them from government.\"While all this work has been going on, the Leveson inquiry has been playing out in the background, challenging the authority of these British instructors by exposing the ugly side of the industry they represent.\"Nobody would condone some of the excesses of the British media, however, our news media is looked on with envy by a huge part of the world and during the whole Leveson process we heard a lot of concern from countries ranging from South Africa to Ukraine that if the British Government took a heavy hand on control of the media it would ricochet around the world and be a process that was distorted and abused by repressive regimes for their own ends,\" says Baker.As politicians Oliver Letwin, Harriet Harman and Liberal Democrat peer Lord Wallace this week continue to debate the model for a future British press regulator and whether it should be backed by statute or Royal Charter, the rest of the world is paying attention \u2013 especially those trying to set up their own news operations in countries with no tradition of a free media.\"We tend to be concerned about our domestic issues but it's vital it's seen in a wider context,\" says Baker. \"A large part of the world still looks to the British media and the fact that these [phone hacking] issues have been exposed by the media and to a certain extent policed by the media tells its own story. There are many places in the world where that couldn't happen.\"A collision in a stairwell, and an editor in the dockLionel Barber, editor of the Financial Times, has chosen not to respond to damning criticisms of his management last week by the specialist employment judge Lindsay Hall-Smith.The judge was deeply unimpressed with Barber's handling of the dismissal of Steve Lodge, an experienced money reporter on the paper. Lodge was fired in December 2011 after accidentally bumping into Alice Ross, currencies correspondent, while he was carrying a crate down a steep stairwell at the FT.Barber chaired a formal disciplinary hearing himself, alongside his deputy Martin Dickson. The pair also gave evidence at Lodge's industrial tribunal, after which the judge castigated the FT editor for his approach and ruled that the reporter, who is seeking \u00a3200,000 in lost earnings, was unfairly dismissed.After expressing surprise that the \"most senior individual at the FT\" should become involved in such a matter, the judge said Barber had \"elevated the matter into both a verbal and physical confrontation\" and \"had failed to consider any other explanation for what had occurred\".Judge Hall-Smith added: \"I found that Lionel Barber failed to adopt either an open minded or objective approach at the disciplinary hearing.\" Accusing the editor of exaggeration, he said: \"There was no physical injury, and I was unable to accept, as Lionel Barber alleged, that the incident was unprecedented.\"Barber was not alone in being criticised. Ms Ross, who was not injured in the incident and had made a previous unsubstantiated claim against Lodge over alleged \"sexism\", was said by the judge to be \"very largely responsible for the collision\", having ascended the stairs while Lodge was coming down with his box. She had then \"deliberately chosen to elevate the incident into something far more serious than in fact it was\".The judge also censured Caspar de Bono, managing director of B2B at the FT, who considered Lodge's appeal. Rather than being independent, he had \"endeavoured to justify Lionel Barber's approach\".None of this is any good for a newspaper which reports on the employment practices of the business world, or for an editor who likes to be regarded as the embodiment of a modern boss.But the paper remains silent on the matter. As its famous slogan nearly says, \"FT. No comment.\"Twitter: @iburrell","Very few North Koreans enjoy an internet connection and those who do are forbidden access to Google, but the web search giant is giving the rest of the world its first glimpse of the framework of the secretive Communist state.Click on the image to enlargeOn Monday, Google Maps added a host of new details to its picture of Pyongyang, which was previously little more than a blank space.Basic infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and subway stops are marked, as are some government buildings. Also visible are the May Day stadium \u2013 the world\u2019s largest, with a capacity of 150,000 \u2013 and the notoriously ugly Ryugyong Hotel, which at 105 storeys is the nation\u2019s tallest building. Beyond the capital, Google has labelled the Yongbyong nuclear site, and four of the country\u2019s vast gulags, thought to hold around 200,000 people. The largest, Camp 22, contains features such as a lumber yard, a pharmaceutical factory and a guards\u2019 restroom.The map was constructed with Google\u2019s crowd-sourced Map Maker tool. Members of the public submit data, which is fact-checked by the firm before being added to the map. Map Maker was launched in 2008 and has already been used to provide detail to maps of Afghanistan, Burma and Iraq. The North Korea mapping project has been underway since 2009; it was carried out by volunteers from outside the country, using information that already available online.Jayanth Mysore, senior product manager at Google Map Maker, wrote in a blog post, \u201cWhile many people around the globe are fascinated with North Korea, these maps are especially important for the citizens of South Korea who have ancestral connections or still have family living there.\u201d Hwang Min-woo, a 28-year-old volunteer from Seoul, told the , \u201cI thought if I could fill in information on North Korea, it might be useful in an emergency or a tragedy if Google can provide a map for aid agencies.\u201dWall Street JournalEarlier this month, Google\u2019s Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt visited Pyongyang as part of a delegation led by the former US ambassador to the UN, Bill Richardson. That was soon after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un declared, in a televised address, that his country\u2019s ailing economy could be improved by embracing science and technology.Though a Google spokesman said that the timing of the new maps after Schmidt\u2019s visit was mere coincidence, Schmidt is a staunch believer in the power of the internet to undermine oppressive governments. In a Google+ post published after his trip, he wrote, \u201cAs the world becomes increasingly connected, the North Korean decision to be virtually isolated is very much going to affect their physical world and their economic growth. It will make it harder for them to catch up economically.\u201d","Do not adjust your screen: the above portraits are not the products of a camera but the steady hand and sharp pencil of a London artist with an astonishing eye for detail.Kelvin Okafor is one of the leading proponents of a niche but flourishing school of photo-realists.The Middlesex fine art graduate is winning plaudits and prizes for his pencil drawings, each of which can take 100 hours over a three-week period to produce.From his home in Tottenham, North London, Okafor, 27, has created portraits of celebrities as diverse as Amy Winehouse, Tinie Tempah and Mother Teresa, shown here, commanding as much as \u00a310,000 for each work.He has more than 50 commissions to his name and awards including the Catherine Petitgas Visitors\u2019 Choice Prize, part of the National Open Art Competition.Okafor\u2019s portraits have also been\u00a0 exhibited at The Mall Galleries in central London as part of the Threadneedle Prize Exhibition.Before the artist puts the pencil to paper, he spends days analysing his source photographs, concentrating first on the eyes before using thousands of pencil strokes to build detail showing every pore and hair.\u201cThe attention I\u2019m receiving is surreal and hasn\u2019t really sunk in yet,\u201d he told his local Tottenham and Wood Green Journal. \u201cI\u2019m usually sheltered from it in my studio as I continue to build my portfolio, but I\u2019m really humbled and honoured that so many people appreciate my work. I hope to have my own gallery in the future.\u201dOkafor\u2019s works will be on display from Friday until 3 February at the Works on Paper/Watercolour Fair at the Science Museum in London.","Bill Gates tonight used the annual Richard Dimbleby Lecture to make the claim that polio could be eradicated throughout the world by 2018.In a passionate speech on the need to reduce child mortality, the Microsoft founder and philanthropist set out his mission to rid the world of polio and praised the British media for its role in highlighting issues of global poverty.\u201cThe fight to eradicate polio is a proving ground, a test,\u201d he said. \u201cIts outcome will reveal what human beings are capable of, and suggest how ambitious we can be about our future.\u201dAs he pledged the commitment of his Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to take on the acutely infectious virus, he acknowledged that polio now exists in only three countries; Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nigeria. \u201cStopping these last cases of polio in these last countries, however, is among the most difficult tasks the world has ever assigned itself. It is also among the most important,\u201d he said.Mr Gates said he had met with the presidents of the three countries where polio remains in order to encourage them to support vaccination programmes in hard to reach communities. \u201cWe have gotten to this point because vaccinators are wading through flooded rivers, governments are investing scarce resources in expensive surveillance strategies, and the global health community is on high alert,\u201d he said. \u201cThese are not sustainable approaches. If we don\u2019t get to zero soon, cases will shoot back up to the tens of thousands annually in dozens of countries.\u201dHe talked of problems in northern Nigeria, where false rumours have suggested that the polio vaccination causes infertility, and in Pakistan, where masked militants last month murdered nine vaccinators, including a 17-year-old girl. \u201cTo me, the nihilism behind these co-ordinated attacks \u2013 seeking out goodness to destroy it \u2013 is the opposite of what the eradication fight is about.\u201dGates explained his 15-year personal journey from billionaire computer entrepreneur to funder of global health campaigns. His inspiration was a neighbour, Bill Foege, an epidemiologist who was \u201cresponsible for eradicating smallpox\u201d, he said. \u201cHe\u2019s one of the most articulate and inspiring leaders in a field where matters of life and death tend to be mummified by jargon.\u201dSpeaking at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in London, Gates, 57, spoke of his excitement at the potential of science to combat disease, suing an exhibit of an \u201ciron lung\u201d respirator \u2013 once used to help polio victims to breathe - from the Science Museum as his prop. He said his \u201call-time favourite\u201d statistic was a chart showing that the annual number of children dying under the age of five had fallen from more than 20 million to 6.9 million in the space of his lifetime.He praised the British media for its coverage of global poverty issues, singling out Jonathan Dimbleby \u2013 who had invited him to give the lecture in memory of his father, head of the famous broadcasting dynasty \u2013 for his 1973 documentary on Ethiopia \u201cThe Unknown Famine\u201d. Gates also cited the work of the BBC\u2019s Michael Buerk in the Horn of Africa, a decade later.In explaining his determination to conquer polio, Gates quoted from The Independent foreign correspondent Patrick Cockburn\u2019s personal account of the polio epidemic in Cork in 1956.Last night The British Polio Fellowship welcomed Gates\u2019s stand as \u201cfantastic news\u201d but called on him to also remember sufferers of the neurological condition Post-Polio Syndrome, including 120,000 people in the United Kingdom.PATRICK COCKBURN\u2019s Senior Foreign Correspondent grew up in Cork, Republic of Ireland, where he was infected with polio at the age of six during the epidemic of 1956. His 2005 memoir, The Broken Boy, describes his experience of the crippling virus. Despite his physical disabilities, Cockburn has become one of the leading reporters of his generation. He is best known for his coverage of Iraq and is a winner of the Martha Gellhorn, James Cameron and Orwell prizes.The Independent","TV host Susanna Reid has been named the most popular presenter of BBC Breakfast in a poll to mark the morning show's 30th anniversary.Reid, 42, won by a huge margin - pulling in more votes than the rest of the top ten combined.Second in the survey by radiotimes.com was Sian Williams who left the show when it headed to Salford from London last year.Reid drew 52 per cent of the votes, with Williams taking 12 per cent, while Bill Turnbull pulled in 8 per cent as fans chose from more than 40 presenters.Reid said: \"I am honoured to have earned the respect and appreciation of Breakfast viewers. I feel lucky even to be on the list of those brilliant presenters who have hosted this programme over the past 30 years.\"Tim Glanfield, editor of radiotimes.com said: \"Susanna Reid is undoubtedly the host most viewers want to wake up to.\"Reid, who first appeared on TV acting in the Channel 4 mini-series The Price in 1985, began her journalistic career at BBC Radio Bristol in the 1990s.She was a late night reporter for BBC News 24 but was asked to stand in for a newsreader who had not arrived for their shift. She joined Breakfast in 2004 and became the main female presenter last year following Williams's departure.Top 10 favourite BBC Breakfast presenters:1. Susanna Reid2. Sian Williams3. Bill Turnbull4. Sophie Raworth5. Louise Minchin6. Kate Silverton7. Jill Dando8. Jeremy Bowen9. Selina Scott10. David IckePA","BBC 5Live's radio presenter Shelagh Fogarty was left cowering on her chair after a mouse was seen scurrying across the studio.Fogarty was live on the air and mid-way through a serious discussion when her interviewee saw the rodent running across the floor.The presenter started squealing before kneeling on her chair much to the amusement of her interviewee and colleagues in the room.The mouse running across the floor caused a panicked Fogarty to leap out of her chair saying: \"Oh my God, how horrible. Oh gosh, I'm sorry, I'm live on the radio squealing and saying how horrible and kneeling on my chair because there is a mouse in the room.\"Fogarty quickly brought the interview to an end, telling listeners: \"I'm going to leave it there because I'm not sure I can continue interviewing in a serious manner when I know there's a mouse scurrying around my feet.\"She sat up on her chair and told the audience she was \"just about OK\", adding: \"But these feet aren't touching the ground, I've got big boots on as well. There's no way this mouse could do me harm, it's quite ridiculous.\"Please somebody get rid of the mouse. If it walks on my hand, I'm resigning. It's on the bloody table!\"The journalist, who joined the station in 1999 and has worked on its drivetime and breakfast shows, later tweeted: \"I've covered tsunamis, terrorist attacks, riots, gun culture - and a mouse tips me over the edge. La Condition Humaine.\"PA","It will be all about the money, money, money for Jessie J when she shaves her head live on television to raise money for Comic Relief.The singer, who will go under the razor on BBC1 on Friday March 15, said: \"Shaving my head for charity is something I've promised to do for a long time and Comic Relief has given me the opportunity to try and raise as much money as possible for good causes by doing it.\"I've loved watching Red Nose Day since I was a kid and I'm so excited to join this year's team of celebrity fun raisers and help support the campaign.\"So this Red Nose Day I'll be shaving my head live on the night of TV.\"I won't deny that I'm nervous but I am also honoured to be part of this year's campaign.\"Together with help from the UK public, we are on a mission to raise more money than ever before for Red Nose Day.\"So come on, let's do it.\"This year's fundraising efforts will also be boosted by pop idols One Direction who have recorded a new version of the Blondie classic One Way or Another for the Red Nose Day single.The boyband, who rose to fame on the X Factor, will perform the song for the first time at the Brit Awards next month.Niall Horan said: \"We are really excited to be part of Red Nose Day this year.\"We recorded Blondie's One Way or Another and we really want the song to raise lots of money and for people to show their support by going out and buying themselves a copy.\"Supporters can also raise money by buying special T-shirts designed by Stella McCartney.PA","Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross have told of their regret and embarrassment about sparking the Sachsgate scandal which engulfed the BBC as they discussed the incident together on TV for the first time.Brand said he was wrapped up in the comedy value of their stunt, and lost perspective of \"reality\" when they left near-the-knuckle messages during a prank call which caused outrage.The pair reflected on their behaviour and told how it brought them closer as friends as Brand appeared on an edition of The Jonathan Ross Show to be screened on ITV tomorrow.They caused a furore in 2008 when they left smutty messages on veteran actor Andrews Sachs's answerphone during a pre-recorded Radio 2 show. It led to the departure of the station controller, and both Brand and Ross left the BBC as a result of the fallout.Speaking during the recording of his chat show, Ross said: \"Let's deal with this, because we're both keen to put this behind us. People, I think are perhaps curious as to how we felt about it afterwards.\"\"We did both regret the furore that we caused, and also the hurt it may have caused Mr Sachs and his family.\"Brand added: \"Obviously we regretted it because it became difficult to distinguish the media phenomena from the obvious impolite act.\"I consider myself quite a polite person right, but sometimes you get excited when you're doing a joke. You know when David Attenborough, he was saying when the camera men are filming an animal and they sort of think 'this is brilliant' and they forget it's actual reality - I sometimes think like that with comedy.\"I'm doing the joke, and I think 'this is brilliant, this is brilliant' and then you sort of realise, 'oh that's reality with real consequences.' I went 'oh it's only a joke' - I didn't realise that we were part of the frequency of reality.\"Ross told how the incident had been a bonding experience for the two of them - and had been a \"genuinely nice thing\" which had resulted from the controversy.\"Russell and I went through an unusual experience together and even though we're both embarrassed by what we did, that's fair enough - but at the same time, the only genuinely nice thing that came out of it for me was the fact that we became very close,\" he said.Brand is launching a Comic Relief concert to be staged at Wembley Arena on March 6, featuring a line-up of friends which he has helped to assemble such as Noel Gallagher, Kasabian and Eddie Izzard. Brand will host the show, called Give It Up For Comic Relief, to raise money and awareness for people with drug and alcohol problems.Former heroin addict Brand told Ross that the death of his friend Amy Winehouse had made him realise he needed to help people.\"I'd occasionally chat to her a little bit but you know what it's like if you know someone that's got a drug and alcohol problem, it's really hard if they're not ready to help them along.\"When she died it made me feel like 'you've got to do something, it's so unnecessary,\" he said.Other acts on the bill for the concert - to be screened by BBC3 - include Jimmy Carr, Noel Fielding, Frankie Boyle, Emeli Sande and Jessie J.:: The Jonathan Ross show is screened on ITV on Saturday at 9.45pm","The main road through Battersea is closed when I make my way to meet milliner Philip Treacy in his south London studio, because of the helicopter crash a week earlier. The bridges across the river are all crammed with traffic, and the trains are running a depleted service because of a dusting of snow that has long since turned black on the pavements.What a relief then, when I am whisked up some stairs on the edge of an industrial estate and into Treacy's workroom, a botanical garden of hats half-finished and half-started, of gleaming wooden 'maquettes' \u2013 the blocks from which each style is sculpted \u2013 and framed odysseys of his imagination sported in celluloid by royalty both populist and literal, by supermodels, icons and artists.It is here that all of Treacy's hats are made: the blocks are honed in Paris, but the hats themselves take shape in the workroom. \"People talk about no manufacturing in central London,\" he laughs. \"We're the best example of British manufacturing, because we make an intrinsically British product right here, entirely by hand!\"In among feathers of all hues, trims, wisps of straw and handmade floral corsages are several busts, including a neo-classical Artemis with tumbling curls lurking behind a pot plant and a wax rendering that I later find out is the Tussaud's bust of the singer Lady Gaga, given to Treacy, so he can knock her up a titfer wherever she is in the world. Pinned to one wall is a rhapsodic note from her; on the opposite side of the room, a photo of the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall on their wedding day, with 'Thanks' scrawled across the bottom.\"Women come into our shop for that ultimate moment in their life,\" the 45-year-old Treacy says, looking suitably paradisiac himself, resplendent in matching lobster-pink jumper and jeans, a silver thimble on his ring finger. \"They're buying a dream. They're buying a moment for themselves. That's what I sell \u2013 moments.\"He creates them, too. Last September, he took over the Royal Courts of Justice and staged a show during London Fashion Week comprising an all-black ensemble of models wearing hats of his creation with the personal wardrobe of Michael Jackson \u2013 just weeks before it was auctioned off. Marking the 20th anniversary of Treacy's first London show, and his 22nd year in the industry, a sunset yellow-coloured smiley hat was paired with the red leather jacket from \"Thriller\"; a rotary-powered Neverland fairground scene perched atop the brow of a model in an 'MJ' emblazoned baseball jacket; a bejewelled, flower-encrusted mask worn with the metallic military-wear from the 1996 History tour, all marching to a soundtrack of Off the Wall-era classics and presided over by none other than Gaga herself, who \u2013 clad in a hot pink full-length veil \u2013 kicked off proceedings with the announcement that Treacy was the \"best milliner in the world\".\"I was mortified in case people thought I'd put her up to it,\" he says hastily at the memory. \"She said, 'I'll say what I think, you can trust me'. She understands where I'm coming from. I'm not trying to rule the world, I'm just trying to make hats. I'm trying to make hats that will bring a future to an industry that needs help.\"People are always trying to kill them off,\" he continues. \"Saying, 'Nobody wears them' or whatever. But hats are attached to special moments in people's lives \u2013 weddings, or the races. In difficult times, people still get married, they still want to look their best. And there's a whole new generation of people interested in hats \u2013 the age group of the customer when I started was certainly much older, and now it's not. So that's slightly killed that theory.\"In truth, Treacy has never been busier: the past few years have cemented him as a household name, after 36 commissions for the Royal Wedding in 2011 alone (including Victoria Beckham and an unfortunately mocked looking-glass number for Princess Beatrice, which raised \u00a381,000 when auctioned for charity on eBay), which saw him working solidly for two weeks without a break to ensure all guests were happy, and no styles were replicated or egos overlapped. Months later, he created a headdress for Madonna's appearance at the Superbowl, and has made for Lady Gaga pieces that have been photographed to within an inch of their lives \u2013 there have been a fair few of them, given that the flamboyant superstar rarely lets her sartorial guard down.\"People are dressing like stars,\" he says, \"which is kind of fantastic. Last night I was watching TV and it's one channel after another of reality shows \u2013 whether it's about a house or a lifestyle or dining. I think that's created a whole sense of 'Because I'm worth it'. And it filters into how people are dressing. Certainly people like Gaga have introduced a new type of hat-wearing.\"Treacy's hats have always been elaborate, constructed and surreal \u2013 from the space-age hennins and face-framing curlicues that he has made for the singer and his long-term friend Grace Jones, to the Dali-esque galleons, Pop Art and trompe l'oeils favoured by the style set, and in particular the late fashion editor Isabella Blow. It was she who initiated Treacy into the industry, advising and propping him up during his post-grad days, just as she did his contemporary Alexander McQueen.\"Isabella helped hats enormously because she always wore them. She'd say, 'When am I going to an event? I'm just going to work'. She led the way for people like Lady Gaga. I remind people: that is what Isabella looked like \u2013 fearless. Isabella wore hats and I made them. We weren't a horse-and-cart act, but in a way it was the perfect combination.\"Born in Ahascragh, County Galway, Treacy was always drawn to the fabulousness of formal occasions. As a child he would attend weddings uninvited to ogle the well-turned-out guests. \"It's that moment when you see someone looking just right,\" he explains. \"That's what makes designers go on, because you're making your version of beautiful.\"I was interested in fashion and clothing \u2013 I didn't know what fashion or design was, but I was good at it. Working with my hands: fundamentally, that is my talent. I can make something out of nothing and people dream about it.\"Having begun his training in Dublin, it was while Treacy was studying millinery at London's Royal College of Art that he was commissioned to create a hat for a Tatler shoot, which was where he bumped into Blow.\"We were very close,\" he remembers. \"She was quite motherly. She thought it was completely normal that I could sit here for a week just making one hat. She didn't tell me to get a grip, she encouraged me. To encourage a young person just starting out is the most important thing in the world.\"Within six months of starting the course, Treacy found himself in Chanel's Paris showrooms, designing headgear for Karl Lagerfeld's next show. He would also go on to make hats for the Givenchy couture catwalk (at the time overseen by Alexander McQueen) as well as for Valentino, Donna Karan and eventually for McQueen's own label, too. In 2000, Treacy was the first milliner to be invited by Paris's Chambre Syndicale to show during couture week.\"I was so shy,\" he says. \"I found it really difficult to hold a conversation \u2013 all I could do was make a hat. The first time at Chanel, I found myself in front of a desk with Karl Lagerfeld, Anna Wintour, Grace Coddington and Liz Tilberis, and on the other side Herb Ritts and Helmut Newton. And Lagerfeld said, 'OK, Philip, what shall we do now?'.\"A new book out this month celebrates these backroom moments of Treacy's career, no less striking than the headpieces he creates but perhaps less immediately glittering. Captured on film, Polaroid and, more recently, digital camera by photographer Kevin Davies, with whom Treacy has worked since an American Vogue portrait in 1991, they tell the unseen stories behind all of the \"moments\", from Treacy fitting Grace Jones for a shoot in the middle of the night to him ironing Naomi Campbell's dress before heading to Ascot.\"I was immediately struck by Philip's personality,\" says Davies. \"Unlike a lot of subjects he asked endless questions. I found his work intriguing, and wanted to know more.\"\"There's a massive d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu attached to my working life,\" Treacy says, \"because I was the one looking at Top of the Pops with these extraordinary people, and suddenly they're coming through the door. Grace Jones, Jerry Hall, Armani, Irving Penn, Karl Lagerfeld \u2013 I didn't set out thinking 'I want to meet that person', I started out thinking, 'I'll never meet that person'.\"But fashion people are fighters, because they can come from nowhere and find themselves in the middle of it all.\"Surrounded as he is by exotic blooms of boaters and bonnets, that statement is fairly accurate. But, while he might be in the middle of things right here, Philip Treacy is also a man at the top of his game.'Philip Treacy' by Kevin Davies, \u00a339.95, Phaidon 2013, phaidon.com","In the early 18th century, a historian passing through Preston remarked on \"a very pretty town with abundance of gentry in it, commonly called Proud Preston\".You can watch a preview of Chlebik's shoot hereToday, things might have changed a little, but Preston and its people are still taking pride in their city. Every 20 years, Preston celebrates an ancient event: Henry II granting Guild Merchant status to the town's leaders.For the latest Preston Guild year, 2012, photographer Jan Chlebik set out to capture the city's contemporary guilds: the diverse communities \u2013 professional, cultural and historical \u2013 that now represent its 132,000 inhabitants.The final project, the Preston People Panorama, is a snapshot of what a modern British community looks like. Across more than 100 photographs, all facets of city life are represented. There are the relics of centuries-old traditions still lingering in the red gowns, golden chains and funny hats of the Lord Mayor and his attendants, juxtaposed against the modern workaday reality of the city's Clean Environment Team, with their fluorescent jackets and lumbering street-sweeper trucks.There are schoolchildren in Scout uniforms on a grey Remembrance Sunday, Morris dancers dressed up as crows, and second- and first-generation immigrants in traditional Polish dress.\"One thing that was fascinating, was that the ordinary began to seem extraordinary,\" says Chlebik of taking these images. \"These are normal people doing really quite normal things and they just look amazing.\"Chlebik, who was born in Blackburn, the son of Polish \u00e9migr\u00e9 parents who fled the Second World War, is a master of the dying art of the panoramic photograph. Commissioned by Manchester-based creative agency Dovetail and supported by Arts Council funding, his photographs are a simple celebration of a thing too often taken for granted: functioning community.\"Panorama groups are quite democratic,\" he says. \"Even if you're in the middle of the shot, everyone's got equal status across the whole picture, whether you're the boss or the worker, a small child or the parent. It's quite a leveller.\"Preston People Panorama is at the Museum of Lancashire in Preston, from Thursday to 19 MayYou can watch a preview of Chlebik's shoot here","On the top right of a giant bank of television screens, a Land Rover comes to a gentle halt outside the gates of a west London Football Club, and suddenly the hills are alive with the sound of Odemwingie.Phones are picked up. Phones are slammed down. A woman in a sprawling television gallery is frantically shouting into a microphone. Notes are being hurried on set by frantic floor managers in headphones while iPads are rushed up and down corridors like cardiac patients. But the only word anyone seems to be saying is \"Odemwingie\".If modern football is a corporate monster, welcome to the heart of Mammon. In the gleaming, turbo-charged south-west London headquarters of Sky Sports News, a digital gold banner stretched in front of the gleaming, turbo-charged presenters tells you today is transfer deadline day, and there's a countdown clock too. It is a fixture in the sporting calendar effectively invented by the channel, then rammed into the public consciousness with every bit of whooshing, whooping, breaking hyperbole it can conjure.After 12 long hours of broadcasting, including a shock Parisian unveiling of David Beckham, the story of transfer deadline day has arrived in the unlikeliest of forms. Peter Odemwingie, an ageing Nigerian journeyman striker has, we think, taken it upon himself to drive from West Bromwich Albion to Queen's Park Rangers, without permission, to force a deal through himself.\"This a situation completely unprecedented in transfer deadline day history,\" bellows the silver Scotsman Jim White. And he would know. Despite the appeal of Natalie Sawyer, resplendent in \"breaking news yellow\", as per every year, he is very much the face of transfer deadline day.\"Have we unleashed a monster?\" he confides later. \"Well if it's a monster, it is a good monster. Everybody buys into it. The clubs buy into it, the players buy into it. It's become a must-watch for football fans.\"Sky Sports News has more than a hundred cameramen and reporters stood outside grounds all over the country, waiting for news that not only may never come, but was possibly never real to begin with, so widespread has the speculation on speculation become.\"No official line coming out of Norwich City just yet, whether to confirm or deny what's happening with Gary Hooper,\" reporter Kate Riley bravely informs viewers, after being stood both literally and figuratively in the dark outside Carrow Road for several hours. \"The manager is still here, watching the Norwich City youngsters here at the stadium behind me,\" she claims, just in time for two young male fans to start dry humping against the gates in the background.Earlier one of the assembled crowd had been waving a banner containing the words \"Smash and Grab\" causing the same frantic gallery woman, sat behind six empty coffee cups, to scream: \"Get rid of that smash and grab guy. I'm not going to you till he's gone. Not with the word smash. No way.\" The ghosts of Richard Keys and Andy Gray still linger.Countless screens show Beckham gurning, Mario Balotelli training, and everywhere cars coming and going, interview-hungry reporters hovering around them. If you were the man that invented electric windows, tonight's the night to gather the grandkids round the television. Jermaine Jenas is skulking around behind frosted glass with the QPR logo on \u2013 the hidden lounges and anterooms of football clubs that you only see on transfer deadline day. In one corner, the BBC's Nick Robinson is strolling round a sunny Algerian street. The overtures to war are building in North Africa, but this is Odemwingie's night.\"That's the most terrific aspect about transfer deadline day,\" says White. \" If you asked a bunch of newspaper headline writers what they would end up writing, it wouldn't have been 'Odemwingie Frozen Out'. You have no idea what's going to happen. In a cup final you have a story about two clubs. Here you have umpteen clubs, umpteen stories, umpteen players. Who's to say Beckham's people didn't orchestrate it so that he would get maximum publicity? He could have signed any day in the last three weeks.\"In the end a big telethon style totalliser graphic shows the total spent in the January transfer window has reached \u00a3120m, down on the bumper Torres-Suarez-Carroll \u00a3225m fest of two years ago, but still double your average Comic Relief, and enough for around 1,300 Bentleys.\"The big one didn't happen,\" White adds, a little forlornly. \"I was hopeful that one of the London clubs might do a sizeable deal, but there wasn't a huge one. In the end I was badgering the Swansea chairman in the ad breaks. That's what you're reduced to.\"When the window slams shut at 11pm (it is never closed gently), details of deals might yet drip through. Then there is the question of what it all means. Who's done well? Who's done badly? What were the deals that did not go through? It's 1am before the deadline day juggernaut nudges into the buffers. No champagne corks are popped or beers cracked open. There will be yet more Odemwinging to be done in the morning \u2013 and it's only seven months until the next one.","Punxsutawney Phil, the celebrated groundhog, was taken out of his burrow this weekend to reveal that spring would come early this year. Good news for those Americans who have suffered from the extremes of weather of late, but things look less good for those who prefer a more scientific approach.Thousands gather each year at Gobbler's Knob (there's a mouthful) in Pennsylvania for the annual event made world-famous by the film Groundhog Day, starring Bill Murray. There, if the creature is deemed to have seen his shadow, winter carries on until March. If not, spring will arrive early.The Stormfax Weather Almanac, however, has most records since 1887 and claims that the animals have only a 39 per cent accuracy rate. And a recent study by the National Climate Data Centre at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration concluded that \"Phil's forecasts are, on average, inaccurate. The groundhog has shown no talent for predicting the arrival of spring, especially in recent years.\" It adds that other, rival groundhogs, \"fared no better\".","Google's hotly anticipated new glasses- which will wearers to summon up maps and other useful data on a screen in the lens- will create sound by sending vibrations directly through the wearer's skull, it has been revealed.The features are included in documents filed with American regulators, and show how the futuristic specs will use \"bone conduction\", which sends vibrations to the inner ear through the skull instead of speakers.Though not a new kind of technology- Panasonic exhibited prototype bone conduction headphones at this year's Consumer Electronics Show- the process is yet to be widely adopted.One of its advantage is that it allows listeners to hear the noise in the environment too.The Federal Communication Commission this week approved the web giant's patent for Google Glass, including \"integral vibrating element that provides audio to the user via contact with the user's head\".Google co-founder, Sergey Brin, is leading the development, and last month he was pictured testing Google Glass on the New York subway.The glasses also boast Wifi and Bluetooth connectivity, and a small screen that appears in the wearer's normal field of vision. A tiny, voice-operated computer inside Google Glass runs the Android mobile operating system.It is planned that wearers will be able to summon up maps and other useful data from the web straight on to their lenses.The first complete Google Glass hardware will be sent to developers who have paid $1,500 to help refine the technology.Google has said it hopes to introduce Google Glass commercially in 2014.","Our gallery of the best UK news photographyCheck here for recent UK news in picturesTake a look at the world news in pictures gallery .hereFor a visual summary of the week in news click .here","London is to have a dedicated television channel offering a service to 4 million homes, the broadcasting watchdog Ofcom announced today.The new London Live channel will broadcast to around 4 million homes and be run by Evening Standard Television (ESTV), a company wholly-owned by Evgeny Lebedev, owner of the London , and newspapers.Evening StandardThe IndependentiESTV beat competition from four rival bids to host the new service, which will enjoy a prominent position at channel 8 on the Freeview electronic programme guide. It will also be shown at channel 117 on Sky and on Virgin, IPTV and other platforms.\u00a0 London Live will utilise the editorial resources of both the and .Evening StandardThe IndependentAnnouncing its decision this morning, Ofcom said: \u201cESTV demonstrated the greatest understanding of London\u2019s diverse communities by putting forward proposals which would allow representation of those communities whilst not excluding others as a result.\u201dThe broadcast regulator was impressed with plans in the ESTV bid for \u201chyper local\u201d coverage of individual districts of the capital on the web-based part of the London Live service. \u201cESTV\u2019s proposals\u2026provided important opportunities for close local community involvement, taking into account, in particular, its proposals for [Internet TV] services in each London borough which would be included in its programming commitments.\u201dThe venture represented \u201can exciting opportunity\u201d, said Mr Lebedev.\u201cOur excellent team of journalists in the capital have the best contacts, knowledge and understanding of the London scene,\u201d he said. \u201cThrough the and , we have proved time and again that we can deliver fast, accurate, high quality breaking news, features and analysis and we are looking forward to applying these skills to London Live.\u201dEvening StandardIndependentCommercial media were enthusiastic about the new outlet. \u201cThis is the biggest single licence awarded since Channel 5 - there\u2019s no doubt that, out of the regional TV licences, the London licence is the most valuable,\u201d said Adrian Drury, lead analyst at Ovum.He said the service had great potential for integrating commentary from social media into hyper local news coverage. \u201cThere are aspects of the service that show really interesting vision about how they see local television today,\u201d he said. \u201cPart of that is their plan to have hyper local video features for each of the London boroughs on the web-delivered part of the service. They\u2019re going heavily after live telecasting with social content integrated \u2013 so you will see not just what the news desk says but also what the Twittersphere and Facebook think.\u201dJess Evans, associate director at Carat, said she expected the service to be popular with advertisers. \u201cClients want multi-format solutions - we can\u2019t think about siloes in media anymore. The same consumer will be watching TV, taking something online and reading in print. This gives us an extra way to access them and integrating social media embodies that.\u201dIn May 2012, Ofcom invited applications to run local TV services in 21 local areas. The regulator received 57 applications to run the services, including five applications for the London licence.As well as broadcasting on digital terrestrial television (DTT), it is anticipated that local TV channels might offer their services on satellite, cable and online.Ofcom has now awarded 15 local TV licences, as well as the multiplex licence, and will make further licence awards in the coming months. Other new local television channels, which could begin broadcasting later this year, include Made in Cardiff, Mustard (Norwich), That\u2019s Oxford and Notts TV.","ITV has signed up Tom Daley for a second series of the hit celebrity diving show Splash!The show, which was presented by Gabby Logan and Vernon Kay, ended on Saturday when a peak audience of 6.6 million tuned in to see former ski-jumper Eddie 'The Eagle' Edwards triumph ahead of Benidorm actor Jake Canuso and Changing Rooms Linda Barker.Daley said he was \"over the moon\" about the news.He said: \"It's a dream come true for me to be involved in an entertainment show which has been so successful and also fits so well around my training schedule.\"Splash! has put diving on primetime TV and diving clubs all across the country have kept telling me that they now have waiting lists, following the popularity of the show. That in itself is an incredible achievement and I'm very excited to be part of it.\"ITV's director of entertainment and comedy Elaine Bedell said: \"Splash! has proved itself by building a big, enthusiastic, primetime family audience. We've seen some quite incredible bravery from our celebrities this series, and the scale of the dives they were achieving is in no small part down to their mentor, and the star of our show, Tom Daley. We're looking forward to even more Saturday night spectacle, and sparkle, with the second series.\"PA"]},{"x":1,"y":0.0382533319028508,"no_docs":15,"words":[{"prob":2.3152706880845e-05,"word":"algerian"},{"prob":2.29009814598566e-05,"word":"british"},{"prob":1.02577334600184e-05,"word":"hostages"},{"prob":3.57113777468368e-05,"word":"workers"},{"prob":4.83454423847684e-05,"word":"militants"},{"prob":1.02577334600184e-05,"word":"plant"},{"prob":1.02577334600184e-05,"word":"foreign"}],"docs":["At least six western hostages and eight Islamist militants were reported to have been killed today when Algerian army helicopters intervened in the siege at a BP-run gas plant in the Sahara desert.A Mauritanian news agency, ANI, citing militants at the site, said the helicopters had strafed a bus trying to leave the gas plant near In Amenas which was captured by Al-Qaida-linked\u00a0 insurgents yesterday.The agency said earlier that as many as 35 hostages had died.This was contradicted by a local source who told Reuters that six hostages died, 25 escaped and seven were still being held. As many as 150 Algerians hostages were also said to have escaped.The Algerian authorities refused to make an immediate comment.It emerged this evening that Britain was not informed in advance of the Algerian decision to stage a military intervention in the hostage crisis.David\u00a0Cameron\u00a0was told that an operation was under way only when he telephoned the Algerian prime minister at 11.30am today, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.The Prime Minister made clear that he would have preferred to be informed in advance, but the Algerians said they had had to act \"immediately\".\"The Prime Minister is extremely concerned. It is a very grave and serious situation,\" the spokesman said.Earlier, it was reported that 30 hostages \u2013 including some of the total of 41 foreign workers reported to be held \u2013 had managed to escape to safety.This afternoon, Ireland's Department of Foreign Affairs said a 36-year-old man from west Belfast who had been held hostage had made contact with his family and was understood to be safe and free from captivity.Stephen McFaul managed to contact his relatives twice before while in captivity.But after receiving no further contact since yesterday, his family made a plea for his release earlier today.They said they were very concerned about his welfare.Just two-and-a-half hours later, he made contact with them to say he was free.Algerian state new agency APS reported that two Scots, one Kenyan and one French hostage were also free.Several British workers were among the hostages, as well as Americans, Japanese, Norwegians and Frenchmen. One Briton and an Algerian guard were killed when the militant raided the gas pumping station near the Algeian-Libyan border yesterday morning.The Mauritanian news agency, which has been in constant contact with the attackers,\u00a0 said\u00a0 Abou El Baraa, one of the leaders of the kidnappers, was killed in the helicopter attack.\u00a0The Nouakchott Information Agency\u00a0 said that the raiders were attacked when they attempted to leave the BP-run complex.About 30 militants failed to capture a bus containing foreign workers yesterday morning but seized the plant itself. They were surrounded overnight by powerful units of the Algerian army.The attackers, believed to be a splinter group from the Al Qaida in the Islamic Magherb (AQIM) movement, asked for 100 Islamist prisoners to be released from Algerian jails.They also asked for safe passage out of Algeria and an end to the week-old French intervention against Islamist rebels in Mali.The Algerian government, which has a history of harsh reactions to hostage situations, said last night that there was no question of surrendering to these demands.The British Foreign Office has confirmed that a military operation is under way at a gas facility.Earlier, Foreign Secretary William Hague accused the attackers of \u201ccold-blooded murder\u201d and described the siege as a \"dangerous and rapidly developing situation.\"Mr Hague said he had dispatched a specialist response team to Algeria to back up Britain's embassy staff.Speaking to the BBC Mr Hague said: \"This is an absolute tragedy, of course. In this dangerous and rapidly developing situation the next of kin have been informed.\"The Government's Cobra emergency system is in full operation. I have spoken to our ambassador in Algeria and despatched a rapid deployment team to Algeria to strengthen our embassy there and help them in their work.\"Excuses being used by terrorists and murderers who are involved - there is no excuse for such behaviour, whatever excuse they may claim.\"It is absolutely unacceptable, of course. It is, in this case, the cold-blooded murder of people going about their business. So there is no excuse, whether it be connected to Libya, Mali or anywhere else.\"","The Prime Minister has postponed his speech tomorrow in the Netherlands on Europe to stay in the UK because of the Algerian crisis, Downing Street said tonight.More Follows","Five British nationals and a UK resident were tonight believed dead or missing as the Algeria hostage crisis ended in a bloody and violent climax.Foreign Secretary William Hague announced the latest causalities after Algerian special forces mounted a \u201cfinal assault\u201d on the remaining Islamist militants still holding out at the remote BP gas plant at In Amenas.\u201cOn the basis of the information that we have this evening, we believe that there are five British nationals or one British resident who are either deceased or unaccounted for, in addition to the one fatality that we had already confirmed,\u201d he said.\u201cWe are working hard to get definitive information about each individual. We are in touch with all of the families concerned.\u201dDavid Cameron said that he had spoken to Algerian prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed that the four-day hostage crisis was \u201ceffectively ended\u201d.\u201cI know that the whole country shares my sympathy and concern for everyone who has been caught up in this incident, and for their friends and families,\u201d the Prime Minister said in a statement.\u201cIt is our priority now to get people home as quickly as possible and to look after the survivors. Many are already home or on their way back.\u201cLet me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way.\u201cOur determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\u201dSeven hostages and 11 of the Islamist militants holding them were reported to have died in the final shoot-out in the vast desert complex close to the Libyan border.The Algerian state news agency, APS, quoted an Algerian security source as saying that the hostages who died were killed by their captor.The Algerian authorities were tonight removing explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the plant before the final battle.Mr Hague, speaking after chairing the second meeting of the day of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, refused to be drawn into criticising the Algerian rescue operation, despite the death toll.\u201cI don't want to at this stage enter into criticism or judgment because there will be a lot to be learned yet about this operation,\u201d he said.\u201cOur focus is very much on getting British nationals who have survived this ordeal and away from that area.\u201dDefence Secretary Philip Hammond said: \u201cThe loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\u201dMeanwhile, BP chief executive Bob Dudley said the company was \u201cunable to confirm the location or situation\u201d of four employees at In Amenas and had \u201cgrave fears\u201d that they are likely to have suffered fatalities.The British ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was tonight in In Amenas, alongside a UK consular team, after finally being granted permission to fly to the region.The situation at the plant remains unclear and Mr Dudley said that it could be some time before they establish exactly what happened. Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.\u201cOur focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate, and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is a company that cares about its people. This is a difficult and sad time for us all,\u201d he said.He said 25 of the 56 BP workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \u201cstaged process\u201d of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country.Earlier, the kidnappers, who call themselves \u201cThose Who Sign in Blood\u201d, told a Mauritanian news agency they were in contact with that they were holding seven foreigners: one British, three Belgians, two Americans and one Japanese.The drama began on Wednesday when a group of about 30 heavily-armed militants mounted a dawn raid at the plant close to the Libyan border, seizing hostages from among the 700 Algerian and foreign workers at the site. Two workers, including one Briton, died in the initial assault.The following day, Algerian special forces mounted an operation to take back the plant, to the initial dismay of the British and other governments who were not notified in advance despite offering assistance to the Algerian authorities.The Algerians, however, insisted that they had to act immediately amid fears that the militants were about to flee into the desert, taking hostages with them.By Friday APS reported that about 100 foreigners, from a total of 132, and 573 Algerians were freed, with a \u201cprovisional\u201d figure of 12 hostages and 18 militants killed in the fighting, although the kidnappers claimed 35 foreigners died.But it was also clear that a group of militants, still holding hostages, was continuing to hold out.The kidnappers, part of the Masked Brigade - a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.The plant at In Amenas is jointly operated by BP, Norwegian company Statoil and Algerian state oil company Sonatrach.Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted by APS strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \u201ctrue disaster\u201d which would have caused \u201cimmeasurable\u201d human and material damage.The rescue mission was carried out in \u201cextremely complex circumstances\u201d against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.Swift action was the \u201conly way to minimise or neutralise the deadly intent of the multinational terrorists - but not without the inevitable risks in all such situations\u201d.As freed hostages began to leave the plant, accounts emerged of their horrific treatment at the hands of the kidnappers.One Algerian worker, who gave his name only as Chabane, described how from his hiding place he heard the militants speaking among themselves with Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents. At one point, he said, they caught a Briton.\u201cThey threatened him until he called out in English to his friends, telling them 'Come out, come out. They're not going to kill you. They're looking for the Americans',\u201d he said.\u201cA few minutes later they blew him away.\u201dThe family of British survivor Darren Matthews, from Saltburn-by-the-Sea in Cleveland, expressed their relief that he had escaped unhurt.\u201cWe have been extremely worried about Darren and we are pleased and relieved to learn that he is safe and well,\u201d they said in a statement released through the Foreign Office.\u201cWe look forward to having him home soon. We ask that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time.\u201dIn a statement tonight, the Algerian Interior Ministry said that a total of 23 hostages and 32 terrorists had been killed, and that 107 foreign workers and 685 local employees had been released.It said that troops had recovered six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with those who had lost loved ones in this \u201cappalling act of terror\u201d.\u201cThe victims were people simply trying to make a living far from home and their families. People across Britain will be thinking of them and their families tonight,\u201d he said.\u201cWe support all efforts by the Government to identify those who planned this attack and bring them to justice.PA","Five British nationals and a UK resident were tonight believed dead or missing as the Algeria hostage crisis ended in a bloody and violent climax.Foreign Secretary William Hague announced the latest causalities after Algerian special forces mounted a \u201cfinal assault\u201d on the remaining Islamist militants still holding out at the remote BP gas plant at In Amenas.\u201cOn the basis of the information that we have this evening, we believe that there are five British nationals or one British resident who are either deceased or unaccounted for, in addition to the one fatality that we had already confirmed,\u201d he said.\u201cWe are working hard to get definitive information about each individual. We are in touch with all of the families concerned.\u201dDavid Cameron said that he had spoken to Algerian prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed that the four-day hostage crisis was \u201ceffectively ended\u201d.\u201cI know that the whole country shares my sympathy and concern for everyone who has been caught up in this incident, and for their friends and families,\u201d the Prime Minister said in a statement.\u201cIt is our priority now to get people home as quickly as possible and to look after the survivors. Many are already home or on their way back.\u201cLet me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way.\u201cOur determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\u201dSeven hostages and 11 of the Islamist militants holding them were reported to have died in the final shoot-out in the vast desert complex close to the Libyan border.The Algerian state news agency, APS, quoted an Algerian security source as saying that the hostages who died were killed by their captor.The Algerian authorities were tonight removing explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the plant before the final battle.Mr Hague, speaking after chairing the second meeting of the day of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, refused to be drawn into criticising the Algerian rescue operation, despite the death toll.\u201cI don't want to at this stage enter into criticism or judgment because there will be a lot to be learned yet about this operation,\u201d he said.\u201cOur focus is very much on getting British nationals who have survived this ordeal and away from that area.\u201dDefence Secretary Philip Hammond said: \u201cThe loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\u201dMeanwhile, BP chief executive Bob Dudley said the company was \u201cunable to confirm the location or situation\u201d of four employees at In Amenas and had \u201cgrave fears\u201d that they are likely to have suffered fatalities.The British ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was tonight in In Amenas, alongside a UK consular team, after finally being granted permission to fly to the region.The situation at the plant remains unclear and Mr Dudley said that it could be some time before they establish exactly what happened. Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.\u201cOur focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate, and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is a company that cares about its people. This is a difficult and sad time for us all,\u201d he said.He said 25 of the 56 BP workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \u201cstaged process\u201d of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country.Earlier, the kidnappers, who call themselves \u201cThose Who Sign in Blood\u201d, told a Mauritanian news agency they were in contact with that they were holding seven foreigners: one British, three Belgians, two Americans and one Japanese.The drama began on Wednesday when a group of about 30 heavily-armed militants mounted a dawn raid at the plant close to the Libyan border, seizing hostages from among the 700 Algerian and foreign workers at the site. Two workers, including one Briton, died in the initial assault.The following day, Algerian special forces mounted an operation to take back the plant, to the initial dismay of the British and other governments who were not notified in advance despite offering assistance to the Algerian authorities.The Algerians, however, insisted that they had to act immediately amid fears that the militants were about to flee into the desert, taking hostages with them.By Friday APS reported that about 100 foreigners, from a total of 132, and 573 Algerians were freed, with a \u201cprovisional\u201d figure of 12 hostages and 18 militants killed in the fighting, although the kidnappers claimed 35 foreigners died.But it was also clear that a group of militants, still holding hostages, was continuing to hold out.The kidnappers, part of the Masked Brigade - a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.The plant at In Amenas is jointly operated by BP, Norwegian company Statoil and Algerian state oil company Sonatrach.Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted by APS strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \u201ctrue disaster\u201d which would have caused \u201cimmeasurable\u201d human and material damage.The rescue mission was carried out in \u201cextremely complex circumstances\u201d against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.Swift action was the \u201conly way to minimise or neutralise the deadly intent of the multinational terrorists - but not without the inevitable risks in all such situations\u201d.As freed hostages began to leave the plant, accounts emerged of their horrific treatment at the hands of the kidnappers.One Algerian worker, who gave his name only as Chabane, described how from his hiding place he heard the militants speaking among themselves with Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents. At one point, he said, they caught a Briton.\u201cThey threatened him until he called out in English to his friends, telling them 'Come out, come out. They're not going to kill you. They're looking for the Americans',\u201d he said.\u201cA few minutes later they blew him away.\u201dThe family of British survivor Darren Matthews, from Saltburn-by-the-Sea in Cleveland, expressed their relief that he had escaped unhurt.\u201cWe have been extremely worried about Darren and we are pleased and relieved to learn that he is safe and well,\u201d they said in a statement released through the Foreign Office.\u201cWe look forward to having him home soon. We ask that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time.\u201dIn a statement tonight, the Algerian Interior Ministry said that a total of 23 hostages and 32 terrorists had been killed, and that 107 foreign workers and 685 local employees had been released.It said that troops had recovered six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with those who had lost loved ones in this \u201cappalling act of terror\u201d.\u201cThe victims were people simply trying to make a living far from home and their families. People across Britain will be thinking of them and their families tonight,\u201d he said.\u201cWe support all efforts by the Government to identify those who planned this attack and bring them to justice.PA","Five British nationals and a UK resident were tonight believed dead or missing as the Algeria hostage crisis ended in a bloody and violent climax.Foreign Secretary William Hague announced the latest causalities after Algerian special forces mounted a \u201cfinal assault\u201d on the remaining Islamist militants still holding out at the remote BP gas plant at In Amenas.\u201cOn the basis of the information that we have this evening, we believe that there are five British nationals or one British resident who are either deceased or unaccounted for, in addition to the one fatality that we had already confirmed,\u201d he said.\u201cWe are working hard to get definitive information about each individual. We are in touch with all of the families concerned.\u201dDavid Cameron said that he had spoken to Algerian prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed that the four-day hostage crisis was \u201ceffectively ended\u201d.\u201cI know that the whole country shares my sympathy and concern for everyone who has been caught up in this incident, and for their friends and families,\u201d the Prime Minister said in a statement.\u201cIt is our priority now to get people home as quickly as possible and to look after the survivors. Many are already home or on their way back.\u201cLet me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way.\u201cOur determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\u201dSeven hostages and 11 of the Islamist militants holding them were reported to have died in the final shoot-out in the vast desert complex close to the Libyan border.The Algerian state news agency, APS, quoted an Algerian security source as saying that the hostages who died were killed by their captor.The Algerian authorities were tonight removing explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the plant before the final battle.Mr Hague, speaking after chairing the second meeting of the day of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, refused to be drawn into criticising the Algerian rescue operation, despite the death toll.\u201cI don't want to at this stage enter into criticism or judgment because there will be a lot to be learned yet about this operation,\u201d he said.\u201cOur focus is very much on getting British nationals who have survived this ordeal and away from that area.\u201dDefence Secretary Philip Hammond said: \u201cThe loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\u201dMeanwhile, BP chief executive Bob Dudley said the company was \u201cunable to confirm the location or situation\u201d of four employees at In Amenas and had \u201cgrave fears\u201d that they are likely to have suffered fatalities.The British ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was tonight in In Amenas, alongside a UK consular team, after finally being granted permission to fly to the region.The situation at the plant remains unclear and Mr Dudley said that it could be some time before they establish exactly what happened. Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.\u201cOur focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate, and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is a company that cares about its people. This is a difficult and sad time for us all,\u201d he said.He said 25 of the 56 BP workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \u201cstaged process\u201d of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country.Earlier, the kidnappers, who call themselves \u201cThose Who Sign in Blood\u201d, told a Mauritanian news agency they were in contact with that they were holding seven foreigners: one British, three Belgians, two Americans and one Japanese.The drama began on Wednesday when a group of about 30 heavily-armed militants mounted a dawn raid at the plant close to the Libyan border, seizing hostages from among the 700 Algerian and foreign workers at the site. Two workers, including one Briton, died in the initial assault.The following day, Algerian special forces mounted an operation to take back the plant, to the initial dismay of the British and other governments who were not notified in advance despite offering assistance to the Algerian authorities.The Algerians, however, insisted that they had to act immediately amid fears that the militants were about to flee into the desert, taking hostages with them.By Friday APS reported that about 100 foreigners, from a total of 132, and 573 Algerians were freed, with a \u201cprovisional\u201d figure of 12 hostages and 18 militants killed in the fighting, although the kidnappers claimed 35 foreigners died.But it was also clear that a group of militants, still holding hostages, was continuing to hold out.The kidnappers, part of the Masked Brigade - a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.The plant at In Amenas is jointly operated by BP, Norwegian company Statoil and Algerian state oil company Sonatrach.Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted by APS strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \u201ctrue disaster\u201d which would have caused \u201cimmeasurable\u201d human and material damage.The rescue mission was carried out in \u201cextremely complex circumstances\u201d against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.Swift action was the \u201conly way to minimise or neutralise the deadly intent of the multinational terrorists - but not without the inevitable risks in all such situations\u201d.As freed hostages began to leave the plant, accounts emerged of their horrific treatment at the hands of the kidnappers.One Algerian worker, who gave his name only as Chabane, described how from his hiding place he heard the militants speaking among themselves with Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents. At one point, he said, they caught a Briton.\u201cThey threatened him until he called out in English to his friends, telling them 'Come out, come out. They're not going to kill you. They're looking for the Americans',\u201d he said.\u201cA few minutes later they blew him away.\u201dThe family of British survivor Darren Matthews, from Saltburn-by-the-Sea in Cleveland, expressed their relief that he had escaped unhurt.\u201cWe have been extremely worried about Darren and we are pleased and relieved to learn that he is safe and well,\u201d they said in a statement released through the Foreign Office.\u201cWe look forward to having him home soon. We ask that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time.\u201dIn a statement tonight, the Algerian Interior Ministry said that a total of 23 hostages and 32 terrorists had been killed, and that 107 foreign workers and 685 local employees had been released.It said that troops had recovered six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with those who had lost loved ones in this \u201cappalling act of terror\u201d.\u201cThe victims were people simply trying to make a living far from home and their families. People across Britain will be thinking of them and their families tonight,\u201d he said.\u201cWe support all efforts by the Government to identify those who planned this attack and bring them to justice.PA","Five British nationals and a UK resident were tonight believed dead or missing as the Algeria hostage crisis ended in a bloody and violent climax.Foreign Secretary William Hague announced the latest causalities after Algerian special forces mounted a \u201cfinal assault\u201d on the remaining Islamist militants still holding out at the remote BP gas plant at In Amenas.\u201cOn the basis of the information that we have this evening, we believe that there are five British nationals or one British resident who are either deceased or unaccounted for, in addition to the one fatality that we had already confirmed,\u201d he said.\u201cWe are working hard to get definitive information about each individual. We are in touch with all of the families concerned.\u201dDavid Cameron said that he had spoken to Algerian prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed that the four-day hostage crisis was \u201ceffectively ended\u201d.\u201cI know that the whole country shares my sympathy and concern for everyone who has been caught up in this incident, and for their friends and families,\u201d the Prime Minister said in a statement.\u201cIt is our priority now to get people home as quickly as possible and to look after the survivors. Many are already home or on their way back.\u201cLet me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way.\u201cOur determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\u201dSeven hostages and 11 of the Islamist militants holding them were reported to have died in the final shoot-out in the vast desert complex close to the Libyan border.The Algerian state news agency, APS, quoted an Algerian security source as saying that the hostages who died were killed by their captor.The Algerian authorities were tonight removing explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the plant before the final battle.Mr Hague, speaking after chairing the second meeting of the day of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, refused to be drawn into criticising the Algerian rescue operation, despite the death toll.\u201cI don't want to at this stage enter into criticism or judgment because there will be a lot to be learned yet about this operation,\u201d he said.\u201cOur focus is very much on getting British nationals who have survived this ordeal and away from that area.\u201dDefence Secretary Philip Hammond said: \u201cThe loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\u201dMeanwhile, BP chief executive Bob Dudley said the company was \u201cunable to confirm the location or situation\u201d of four employees at In Amenas and had \u201cgrave fears\u201d that they are likely to have suffered fatalities.The British ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was tonight in In Amenas, alongside a UK consular team, after finally being granted permission to fly to the region.The situation at the plant remains unclear and Mr Dudley said that it could be some time before they establish exactly what happened. Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.\u201cOur focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate, and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is a company that cares about its people. This is a difficult and sad time for us all,\u201d he said.He said 25 of the 56 BP workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \u201cstaged process\u201d of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country.Earlier, the kidnappers, who call themselves \u201cThose Who Sign in Blood\u201d, told a Mauritanian news agency they were in contact with that they were holding seven foreigners: one British, three Belgians, two Americans and one Japanese.The drama began on Wednesday when a group of about 30 heavily-armed militants mounted a dawn raid at the plant close to the Libyan border, seizing hostages from among the 700 Algerian and foreign workers at the site. Two workers, including one Briton, died in the initial assault.The following day, Algerian special forces mounted an operation to take back the plant, to the initial dismay of the British and other governments who were not notified in advance despite offering assistance to the Algerian authorities.The Algerians, however, insisted that they had to act immediately amid fears that the militants were about to flee into the desert, taking hostages with them.By Friday APS reported that about 100 foreigners, from a total of 132, and 573 Algerians were freed, with a \u201cprovisional\u201d figure of 12 hostages and 18 militants killed in the fighting, although the kidnappers claimed 35 foreigners died.But it was also clear that a group of militants, still holding hostages, was continuing to hold out.The kidnappers, part of the Masked Brigade - a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.The plant at In Amenas is jointly operated by BP, Norwegian company Statoil and Algerian state oil company Sonatrach.Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted by APS strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \u201ctrue disaster\u201d which would have caused \u201cimmeasurable\u201d human and material damage.The rescue mission was carried out in \u201cextremely complex circumstances\u201d against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.Swift action was the \u201conly way to minimise or neutralise the deadly intent of the multinational terrorists - but not without the inevitable risks in all such situations\u201d.As freed hostages began to leave the plant, accounts emerged of their horrific treatment at the hands of the kidnappers.One Algerian worker, who gave his name only as Chabane, described how from his hiding place he heard the militants speaking among themselves with Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents. At one point, he said, they caught a Briton.\u201cThey threatened him until he called out in English to his friends, telling them 'Come out, come out. They're not going to kill you. They're looking for the Americans',\u201d he said.\u201cA few minutes later they blew him away.\u201dThe family of British survivor Darren Matthews, from Saltburn-by-the-Sea in Cleveland, expressed their relief that he had escaped unhurt.\u201cWe have been extremely worried about Darren and we are pleased and relieved to learn that he is safe and well,\u201d they said in a statement released through the Foreign Office.\u201cWe look forward to having him home soon. We ask that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time.\u201dIn a statement tonight, the Algerian Interior Ministry said that a total of 23 hostages and 32 terrorists had been killed, and that 107 foreign workers and 685 local employees had been released.It said that troops had recovered six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with those who had lost loved ones in this \u201cappalling act of terror\u201d.\u201cThe victims were people simply trying to make a living far from home and their families. People across Britain will be thinking of them and their families tonight,\u201d he said.\u201cWe support all efforts by the Government to identify those who planned this attack and bring them to justice.PA","Five British nationals and a UK resident were tonight believed dead or missing as the Algeria hostage crisis ended in a bloody and violent climax.Foreign Secretary William Hague announced the latest causalities after Algerian special forces mounted a \u201cfinal assault\u201d on the remaining Islamist militants still holding out at the remote BP gas plant at In Amenas.\u201cOn the basis of the information that we have this evening, we believe that there are five British nationals or one British resident who are either deceased or unaccounted for, in addition to the one fatality that we had already confirmed,\u201d he said.\u201cWe are working hard to get definitive information about each individual. We are in touch with all of the families concerned.\u201dDavid Cameron said that he had spoken to Algerian prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed that the four-day hostage crisis was \u201ceffectively ended\u201d.\u201cI know that the whole country shares my sympathy and concern for everyone who has been caught up in this incident, and for their friends and families,\u201d the Prime Minister said in a statement.\u201cIt is our priority now to get people home as quickly as possible and to look after the survivors. Many are already home or on their way back.\u201cLet me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way.\u201cOur determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\u201dSeven hostages and 11 of the Islamist militants holding them were reported to have died in the final shoot-out in the vast desert complex close to the Libyan border.The Algerian state news agency, APS, quoted an Algerian security source as saying that the hostages who died were killed by their captor.The Algerian authorities were tonight removing explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the plant before the final battle.Mr Hague, speaking after chairing the second meeting of the day of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, refused to be drawn into criticising the Algerian rescue operation, despite the death toll.\u201cI don't want to at this stage enter into criticism or judgment because there will be a lot to be learned yet about this operation,\u201d he said.\u201cOur focus is very much on getting British nationals who have survived this ordeal and away from that area.\u201dDefence Secretary Philip Hammond said: \u201cThe loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\u201dMeanwhile, BP chief executive Bob Dudley said the company was \u201cunable to confirm the location or situation\u201d of four employees at In Amenas and had \u201cgrave fears\u201d that they are likely to have suffered fatalities.The British ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was tonight in In Amenas, alongside a UK consular team, after finally being granted permission to fly to the region.The situation at the plant remains unclear and Mr Dudley said that it could be some time before they establish exactly what happened. Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.\u201cOur focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate, and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is a company that cares about its people. This is a difficult and sad time for us all,\u201d he said.He said 25 of the 56 BP workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \u201cstaged process\u201d of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country.Earlier, the kidnappers, who call themselves \u201cThose Who Sign in Blood\u201d, told a Mauritanian news agency they were in contact with that they were holding seven foreigners: one British, three Belgians, two Americans and one Japanese.The drama began on Wednesday when a group of about 30 heavily-armed militants mounted a dawn raid at the plant close to the Libyan border, seizing hostages from among the 700 Algerian and foreign workers at the site. Two workers, including one Briton, died in the initial assault.The following day, Algerian special forces mounted an operation to take back the plant, to the initial dismay of the British and other governments who were not notified in advance despite offering assistance to the Algerian authorities.The Algerians, however, insisted that they had to act immediately amid fears that the militants were about to flee into the desert, taking hostages with them.By Friday APS reported that about 100 foreigners, from a total of 132, and 573 Algerians were freed, with a \u201cprovisional\u201d figure of 12 hostages and 18 militants killed in the fighting, although the kidnappers claimed 35 foreigners died.But it was also clear that a group of militants, still holding hostages, was continuing to hold out.The kidnappers, part of the Masked Brigade - a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.The plant at In Amenas is jointly operated by BP, Norwegian company Statoil and Algerian state oil company Sonatrach.Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted by APS strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \u201ctrue disaster\u201d which would have caused \u201cimmeasurable\u201d human and material damage.The rescue mission was carried out in \u201cextremely complex circumstances\u201d against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.Swift action was the \u201conly way to minimise or neutralise the deadly intent of the multinational terrorists - but not without the inevitable risks in all such situations\u201d.As freed hostages began to leave the plant, accounts emerged of their horrific treatment at the hands of the kidnappers.One Algerian worker, who gave his name only as Chabane, described how from his hiding place he heard the militants speaking among themselves with Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents. At one point, he said, they caught a Briton.\u201cThey threatened him until he called out in English to his friends, telling them 'Come out, come out. They're not going to kill you. They're looking for the Americans',\u201d he said.\u201cA few minutes later they blew him away.\u201dThe family of British survivor Darren Matthews, from Saltburn-by-the-Sea in Cleveland, expressed their relief that he had escaped unhurt.\u201cWe have been extremely worried about Darren and we are pleased and relieved to learn that he is safe and well,\u201d they said in a statement released through the Foreign Office.\u201cWe look forward to having him home soon. We ask that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time.\u201dIn a statement tonight, the Algerian Interior Ministry said that a total of 23 hostages and 32 terrorists had been killed, and that 107 foreign workers and 685 local employees had been released.It said that troops had recovered six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with those who had lost loved ones in this \u201cappalling act of terror\u201d.\u201cThe victims were people simply trying to make a living far from home and their families. People across Britain will be thinking of them and their families tonight,\u201d he said.\u201cWe support all efforts by the Government to identify those who planned this attack and bring them to justice.PA","Five British nationals and a UK resident were tonight believed dead or missing as the Algeria hostage crisis ended in a bloody and violent climax.Foreign Secretary William Hague announced the latest causalities after Algerian special forces mounted a \u201cfinal assault\u201d on the remaining Islamist militants still holding out at the remote BP gas plant at In Amenas.\u201cOn the basis of the information that we have this evening, we believe that there are five British nationals or one British resident who are either deceased or unaccounted for, in addition to the one fatality that we had already confirmed,\u201d he said.\u201cWe are working hard to get definitive information about each individual. We are in touch with all of the families concerned.\u201dDavid Cameron said that he had spoken to Algerian prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed that the four-day hostage crisis was \u201ceffectively ended\u201d.\u201cI know that the whole country shares my sympathy and concern for everyone who has been caught up in this incident, and for their friends and families,\u201d the Prime Minister said in a statement.\u201cIt is our priority now to get people home as quickly as possible and to look after the survivors. Many are already home or on their way back.\u201cLet me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way.\u201cOur determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\u201dSeven hostages and 11 of the Islamist militants holding them were reported to have died in the final shoot-out in the vast desert complex close to the Libyan border.The Algerian state news agency, APS, quoted an Algerian security source as saying that the hostages who died were killed by their captor.The Algerian authorities were tonight removing explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the plant before the final battle.Mr Hague, speaking after chairing the second meeting of the day of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, refused to be drawn into criticising the Algerian rescue operation, despite the death toll.\u201cI don't want to at this stage enter into criticism or judgment because there will be a lot to be learned yet about this operation,\u201d he said.\u201cOur focus is very much on getting British nationals who have survived this ordeal and away from that area.\u201dDefence Secretary Philip Hammond said: \u201cThe loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\u201dMeanwhile, BP chief executive Bob Dudley said the company was \u201cunable to confirm the location or situation\u201d of four employees at In Amenas and had \u201cgrave fears\u201d that they are likely to have suffered fatalities.The British ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was tonight in In Amenas, alongside a UK consular team, after finally being granted permission to fly to the region.The situation at the plant remains unclear and Mr Dudley said that it could be some time before they establish exactly what happened. Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.\u201cOur focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate, and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is a company that cares about its people. This is a difficult and sad time for us all,\u201d he said.He said 25 of the 56 BP workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \u201cstaged process\u201d of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country.Earlier, the kidnappers, who call themselves \u201cThose Who Sign in Blood\u201d, told a Mauritanian news agency they were in contact with that they were holding seven foreigners: one British, three Belgians, two Americans and one Japanese.The drama began on Wednesday when a group of about 30 heavily-armed militants mounted a dawn raid at the plant close to the Libyan border, seizing hostages from among the 700 Algerian and foreign workers at the site. Two workers, including one Briton, died in the initial assault.The following day, Algerian special forces mounted an operation to take back the plant, to the initial dismay of the British and other governments who were not notified in advance despite offering assistance to the Algerian authorities.The Algerians, however, insisted that they had to act immediately amid fears that the militants were about to flee into the desert, taking hostages with them.By Friday APS reported that about 100 foreigners, from a total of 132, and 573 Algerians were freed, with a \u201cprovisional\u201d figure of 12 hostages and 18 militants killed in the fighting, although the kidnappers claimed 35 foreigners died.But it was also clear that a group of militants, still holding hostages, was continuing to hold out.The kidnappers, part of the Masked Brigade - a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.The plant at In Amenas is jointly operated by BP, Norwegian company Statoil and Algerian state oil company Sonatrach.Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted by APS strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \u201ctrue disaster\u201d which would have caused \u201cimmeasurable\u201d human and material damage.The rescue mission was carried out in \u201cextremely complex circumstances\u201d against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.Swift action was the \u201conly way to minimise or neutralise the deadly intent of the multinational terrorists - but not without the inevitable risks in all such situations\u201d.As freed hostages began to leave the plant, accounts emerged of their horrific treatment at the hands of the kidnappers.One Algerian worker, who gave his name only as Chabane, described how from his hiding place he heard the militants speaking among themselves with Libyan, Egyptian and Tunisian accents. At one point, he said, they caught a Briton.\u201cThey threatened him until he called out in English to his friends, telling them 'Come out, come out. They're not going to kill you. They're looking for the Americans',\u201d he said.\u201cA few minutes later they blew him away.\u201dThe family of British survivor Darren Matthews, from Saltburn-by-the-Sea in Cleveland, expressed their relief that he had escaped unhurt.\u201cWe have been extremely worried about Darren and we are pleased and relieved to learn that he is safe and well,\u201d they said in a statement released through the Foreign Office.\u201cWe look forward to having him home soon. We ask that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time.\u201dIn a statement tonight, the Algerian Interior Ministry said that a total of 23 hostages and 32 terrorists had been killed, and that 107 foreign workers and 685 local employees had been released.It said that troops had recovered six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with those who had lost loved ones in this \u201cappalling act of terror\u201d.\u201cThe victims were people simply trying to make a living far from home and their families. People across Britain will be thinking of them and their families tonight,\u201d he said.\u201cWe support all efforts by the Government to identify those who planned this attack and bring them to justice.PA","Sixteen foreign hostages being held by Islamist fighters who attacked a gas plant in the Algerian desert have been freed, according to Reuters news agency.Quoting a 'source close to the crisis', Reuters said those freed include two Americans, two Germans and one Portuguese.It is unclear whether any Britons were among the free.David Cameron last night warned that a diplomatic response would not be enough to tackle the growing terrorist threat in North Africa and that a \u201crobust security response\u201d must be deployed.About 30 foreign hostages \u2013 including 12 Britons \u2013 were thought to be dead or missing in the Sahara last night as the siege of a BP gas field in Algeria continued for a fourth day.Yesterday morning about a dozen Islamist militants were reported to be resisting attempts by Algerian forces to end the siege. According to one report, they were barricaded in a machine room with explosives and an unknown number of hostages and threatening to blow up the industrial part of the site.Britain has traditionally had a limited presence in Saharan Africa, but Mr Cameron's comments foreshadow a new focus on tackling terrorism in the region. The Prime Minister said Britain faces a \"large and existential threat\" from organisations such as al-Qa'ida in the Maghreb. British intelligence and military logistics are supporting the French action in Mali, but there are no plans, No 10 says, to deploy ground troops to the country.The Algerian authorities said around 100 foreigners had been rescued. Two of the missing Britons are reported to have died when Algerian special forces launched an assault on part of the BP facility.The Algerian forces encircled the raiders yesterday but apparently made no new attack. The scale of the hostage-taking became clear as Algerian sources revealed that a multinational group of about 25 to 30 militants trapped 600 Algerians and 132 foreigners from 10 countries \u2013 including 30 Britons \u2013 at the gas field in Tiguentourine on Wednesday.According to the Algerian state news agency last night, \"almost 100\" of the 132 foreigners and most of the Algerians were freed when the living quarters were stormed on Thursday. This left around 30 foreigners unaccounted for. Two Britons, two Japanese nationals, one Frenchman and eight Algerian civilians are officially reported to have died. US officials last night confirmed one American, Texan Frederick Buttaccio, was killed.The US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton spoke with the Algerian Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal and said the \"utmost care must be taken to preserve innocent life\". A State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said not all Americans had been freed. \"We have American hostages.\" Survivors suggested some \"hostages\" were never actually captured. A French chef who hid under his bed for 40 hours said three Britons were discovered in a roof space when their quarters were freed.David Cameron \u2013 who met the US Secretary of Defence, Leon Panetta, in London \u2013 told the Commons that the number of Britons missing had been \"significantly reduced\" from the initial estimate of \"less than 30\".He declined to give details but the number of British workers unaccounted for was said to be at the \"low end\" of a scale between 10 and 20. In an emergency Commons statement, Mr Cameron made clear his irritation that Algeria had refused his offer of \"technical and intelligence assistance\".A British plane landed in Algiers today to bring back freed hostages. Footage of unnamed British workers said to have escaped the siege was shown on Algerian state television.\"My heart goes out to the guys that are still there and hopefully everyone comes home safe,\" one man said. Eighteen raiders are reported to have died in Thursday's fighting. One was captured alive, according to the Algerian media.Algerian security sources said the militants were mostly young men from Libya, Tunisia and Egypt but there was also one French citizen. An Algerian survivor told Le Monde that one of the raiders \"spoke English with a perfect British accent\".The surviving Islamists, communicating through a news agency in Mauritania, offered to trade two American hostages for two Islamists jailed in the US. One of them is the \"blind sheikh\", Omar Abdel-Rahman, convicted for organising the 1993 World Trade Centre bomb plot. One expert on the region said that, in the eyes of the Algerian security services, both terrorists and hostages are \" people condemned to death\".According to accounts by survivors, including Stephen McFaul from Belfast, the assault began after a group of militants tried to leave the gas field with a number of hostages in a convoy of five trucks. Mr McFaul survived because his vehicle crashed. The other trucks were destroyed by Algerian helicopter gunships \u2013 killing captors and captives alike.","The Algerian hostage crisis will remain the Government's \u201ctop priority\u201d until every British national at the BP gas plant is accounted for, Foreign Secretary William Hague vowed today.Around 10 UK workers at the remote desert complex are thought still to be \"at risk\" as Algerian special forces continue to hunt the site for the remaining terrorists.The Algerian state news agency APS reported that 12 foreign and Algerian workers and 18 Islamist militants had been killed in fighting after troops stormed the plant at In Amenas on Thursday.Details remain sketchy but the figures suggest that around a dozen of the original group of 30 heavily armed terrorists could still be holed up at the complex - possibly still holding hostages.Mr Hague, who returned early from a visit to Australia, was due to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee, as officials in Whitehall continued to monitor developments closely.\"Will remain our top priority until every British national is accounted for,\" the Foreign Secretary wrote on his Twitter feed.\"My thoughts are also with the families of everyone affected, particularly those still waiting for news of their loved ones.\"APS reported that around 100 of the 132 foreign workers at the site had been freed along with 573 locally employed staff.PA","David Cameron today heralded the start of a decades-long struggle against Islamist terrorism in north Africa in the wake of the violent climax to the Algerian hostage crisis.The Prime Minister disclosed that three British nationals were now known to have died and three more were feared dead after the four-day stand-off in the desert. A UK resident is also believed to have been killed.As Algerian forces continued dismantling the mines and explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the sprawling BP gas plant at In Amenas, the Algerian authorities warned that the provisional death toll of 23 hostages was likely to rise.All 32 militants involved in the attack were reported to have been killed - some of them after reportedly \u201cexecuting\u201d their foreign captives as Algerian special forces mounted their \u201cfinal assault\u201d yesterday to take back the facility.Mr Cameron said the attack was a \u201cstark reminder\u201d of the continuing terrorist threat and vowed to use Britain's chairmanship of the G8 to ensure that it was right at the top of the international agenda.\u201cThis is a global threat and it will require a global response. It will require a response that is about years, even decades, rather than months,\u201d he said.\u201cIt requires a response that is patient and painstaking, that is tough but also intelligent, but above all has an absolutely iron resolve and that is what we will deliver over these coming years.\u201cWhat we face is an extremist, Islamist, al Qaida-linked terrorist group. Just as we had to deal with that in Pakistan and in Afghanistan so the world needs to come together to deal with this threat in north Africa.\u201cIt is linked to al Qaida, it wants to destroy our way of life, it believes in killing as many people as it can. We need to work with others to defeat the terrorists and to close down the ungoverned spaces where they thrive with all the means that we have.\u201dForeign Secretary William Hague said that 22 British nationals at the plant who survived the attack had been flown back to the UK overnight in aircraft chartered by BP and the Foreign Office.Britain's ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was returning to In Amenas to co-ordinate the efforts to establish what had happened to the three missing Britons.Despite the heavy loss of life, Mr Cameron refused to criticise the hardline tactics of the Algerian government which right from the start ruled out any negotiation with the terrorists.\u201cThe responsibility for these deaths lies squarely with the terrorists who launched these vicious and cowardly attacks,\u201d he said.\u201cWhen you are dealing with a terrorist incident on this scale with up to 30 terrorists it is extremely difficult to respond and get this right in every respect.\u201cWe should recognise all that the Algerians have done to work with us and to help and co-ordinate with us, and I would like to thank them for that.\u201dThe Algerian interior ministry said that the troops had no choice but to intervene.\u201cTo avoid a bloody turn of events in response to the extreme danger of the situation, the army's special forces launched an intervention with efficiency and professionalism to neutralise the terrorist groups that were first trying to flee with the hostages and then blow up the gas facilities,\u201d it said in a statement.Troops later recovered a terrorist arsenal of six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.The kidnappers calling themselves \u201cThose Who Sign In Blood\u201d - part of a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.While he backed the French military action against al Qaida-backed rebels in neighbouring Mali, Mr Hague cautioned against wider western military intervention in the region.\u201cThe primary way of operating has to be through the countries of the region. That has to be the only way to enjoy the greatest possible legitimacy, to bring about a political solution,\u201d he told BBC1's The Andrew Marr Show.\u201cThere isn't a military solution to all the problems of the Sahel. There is a complex mixture of political and economic solutions.\u201dPresident Barack Obama said the United States was ready to provide whatever assistance the Algerians needed in the wake of the attack.\u201cThis attack is another reminder of the threat posed by al Qaida and other violent extremist groups in north Africa,\u201d he said in a statement.\u201cIn the coming days, we will remain in close touch with the government of Algeria to gain a fuller understanding of what took place so that we can work together to prevent tragedies like this in the future.\u201dScotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said that two Scots, or people with immediate Scottish family connections, were believed to have been killed. There were eight Scots among the survivors.\u201cThe Scottish authorities continue to offer every support to all caught up in this crisis, and we remain in close contact with the UK Government,\u201d he said.","David Cameron today heralded the start of a decades-long struggle against Islamist terrorism in north Africa in the wake of the violent climax to the Algerian hostage crisis.The Prime Minister disclosed that three British nationals were now known to have died and three more were feared dead after the four-day stand-off in the desert. A UK resident is also believed to have been killed.As Algerian forces continued dismantling the mines and explosives left by the militants who booby-trapped the sprawling BP gas plant at In Amenas, the Algerian authorities warned that the provisional death toll of 23 hostages was likely to rise.All 32 militants involved in the attack were reported to have been killed - some of them after reportedly \u201cexecuting\u201d their foreign captives as Algerian special forces mounted their \u201cfinal assault\u201d yesterday to take back the facility.Mr Cameron said the attack was a \u201cstark reminder\u201d of the continuing terrorist threat and vowed to use Britain's chairmanship of the G8 to ensure that it was right at the top of the international agenda.\u201cThis is a global threat and it will require a global response. It will require a response that is about years, even decades, rather than months,\u201d he said.\u201cIt requires a response that is patient and painstaking, that is tough but also intelligent, but above all has an absolutely iron resolve and that is what we will deliver over these coming years.\u201cWhat we face is an extremist, Islamist, al Qaida-linked terrorist group. Just as we had to deal with that in Pakistan and in Afghanistan so the world needs to come together to deal with this threat in north Africa.\u201cIt is linked to al Qaida, it wants to destroy our way of life, it believes in killing as many people as it can. We need to work with others to defeat the terrorists and to close down the ungoverned spaces where they thrive with all the means that we have.\u201dForeign Secretary William Hague said that 22 British nationals at the plant who survived the attack had been flown back to the UK overnight in aircraft chartered by BP and the Foreign Office.Britain's ambassador to Algiers, Martyn Roper, was returning to In Amenas to co-ordinate the efforts to establish what had happened to the three missing Britons.Despite the heavy loss of life, Mr Cameron refused to criticise the hardline tactics of the Algerian government which right from the start ruled out any negotiation with the terrorists.\u201cThe responsibility for these deaths lies squarely with the terrorists who launched these vicious and cowardly attacks,\u201d he said.\u201cWhen you are dealing with a terrorist incident on this scale with up to 30 terrorists it is extremely difficult to respond and get this right in every respect.\u201cWe should recognise all that the Algerians have done to work with us and to help and co-ordinate with us, and I would like to thank them for that.\u201dThe Algerian interior ministry said that the troops had no choice but to intervene.\u201cTo avoid a bloody turn of events in response to the extreme danger of the situation, the army's special forces launched an intervention with efficiency and professionalism to neutralise the terrorist groups that were first trying to flee with the hostages and then blow up the gas facilities,\u201d it said in a statement.Troops later recovered a terrorist arsenal of six machine guns, 21 rifles, two shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.The kidnappers calling themselves \u201cThose Who Sign In Blood\u201d - part of a terrorist splinter group led by the veteran jihadist, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, which broke away from al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb - initially claimed the attack was in retaliation for the French military intervention in neighbouring Mali.It was subsequently reported that they were demanding the release of two terrorists held in the US, including 1993 World Trade Centre bombing mastermind Omar Abdel Rahman, in return for the release of two US captives.While he backed the French military action against al Qaida-backed rebels in neighbouring Mali, Mr Hague cautioned against wider western military intervention in the region.\u201cThe primary way of operating has to be through the countries of the region. That has to be the only way to enjoy the greatest possible legitimacy, to bring about a political solution,\u201d he told BBC1's The Andrew Marr Show.\u201cThere isn't a military solution to all the problems of the Sahel. There is a complex mixture of political and economic solutions.\u201dPresident Barack Obama said the United States was ready to provide whatever assistance the Algerians needed in the wake of the attack.\u201cThis attack is another reminder of the threat posed by al Qaida and other violent extremist groups in north Africa,\u201d he said in a statement.\u201cIn the coming days, we will remain in close touch with the government of Algeria to gain a fuller understanding of what took place so that we can work together to prevent tragedies like this in the future.\u201dScotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said that two Scots, or people with immediate Scottish family connections, were believed to have been killed. There were eight Scots among the survivors.\u201cThe Scottish authorities continue to offer every support to all caught up in this crisis, and we remain in close contact with the UK Government,\u201d he said.","British engineers Amec, Babcock International, and Atkins are believed to be circling nuclear decommissioning work estimated to be worth at least $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) in Japan as a result of the Fukushima disaster.The new Japanese government is thought to be preparing decommissioning contracts that will include Fukushima's Daiichi plant, which was overwhelmed by a tsunami in 2011, and other reactors in seismically endangered areas.A nuclear source said bids could be invited for the clean-up work before the end of the year, with British groups in a strong position due to all the decommissioning work that has been undertaken in the UK.US-owned Energy Solutions will also be interested.\"This is a huge opportunity,\" claimed the source. \"Japan should start making some real progress on decommissioning now.\"","A hardline but effective operation by Algerian special forces brought to an end the four-day hostage crisis in the desert yesterday, as they swept into the gas refinery at In Amenas, killing 11 terrorists and discovering that seven of the foreign hostages had been shot, possibly executed by their captors. Amid the confusion over the identities of the victims, the British government said that at least five Britons were either dead or unaccounted for.Yet, as the immediate crisis ended, albeit in the bloodshed with\u00a0which it began, there were rising fears that the episode might\u00a0just be the beginning of a far wider Western involvement in the region to try to quell the spread into\u00a0Africa of Islamic extremism and terror.Officials in Europe and Washington are to increase assistance, including intelligence-sharing, military aid and training, to states identified as at risk from the march of al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). So, a suicidal terror mission, an energy-rich region, talk of action to deal with countries that are havens and training grounds for extremists \u2013 there is an unsettling familiarity about it all.There was, however, relief that the immediate crisis was brought to an end yesterday. The special forces operation was triggered by a fire in the complex and a suspicion, later confirmed, that the terrorists had mined and booby-trapped the plant.As it began, there were believed to be about a dozen terrorists still holding at least 30 foreign hostages inside the refinery part of the complex. First, came word that the Algerian troops had discovered 15 charred bodies \u2013 identities unknown \u2013 then news that 16 hostages, none of them Britons, had been released.Algerian government sources declared mid-afternoon yesterday that the siege was over, with a total of 32 terrorists and 23 hostages killed in the entire attack. A total of 685 Algerian and 107 foreigner workers were freed.But the number of Britons who have lost their lives is still unknown. Two were known to have died on Wednesday and Thursday, and there are now palpable fears for others still unaccounted for. The group chief executive of BP, Bob Dudley, said the company is \"unable to confirm the location or situation\" of four employees at In Amenas, and the firm has \"grave fears\" that the workers are likely to have suffered fatalities.Releasing the latest figures of those feared dead last night, David Cameron said: \"Let me be clear. There is no justification for taking innocent life in this way. Our determination is stronger than ever to work with allies right around the world to root out and defeat this terrorist scourge and those who encourage it.\"The Defence Secretary, Philip Hammond, who held a joint news conference with the US Defence Secretary, Leon Panetta, said: \"The loss of life as a result of these attacks is appalling and unacceptable. We must be clear that it is the terrorists who bear sole responsibility for it.\"Scotland's First Minister, Alex Salmond, said eight Scottish residents are confirmed safe and secure, but said some of the workers still unaccounted for have family in Scotland or other connections to the country. BP said that 25 of its 56 workers in Algeria at the time of the attack have now left in a \"staged process\" of withdrawing all non-essential staff from the country.Foreign Secretary William Hague said that a British consular team is now on the ground at In Amenas, providing assistance to those Britons who escaped, while Britain's ambassador to Algeria, Martyn Roper, is travelling to the area.\"This whole incident underlines the scale and ruthlessness of the terrorist threat that we and other nations face,\" said Mr Hague. \"We underline our resolve to deal with that and to defeat terrorism and murder, working with allies across the world, including in North Africa.\"Despite the casualties among the hostages, an Algerian government source quoted yesterday by the Algerian Press Service strongly defended the military operation, saying it prevented a \"true disaster\" which would have caused \"immeasurable\" human and material damage. The rescue mission was carried out in \"extremely complex circumstances\" against terrorists armed with a huge arsenal of missiles, rocket launchers, grenades and assault rifles, the source said.The French President, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, backed Algeria's handling of the crisis, saying that \"no negotiation was possible\". He added: \"We don't have all the details, but when there's a hostage situation concerning so many people, with terrorists so coldly determined, ready to kill... a country like Algeria responds in a way which, to my eyes, is the most suitable.\" Mr Hammond was more ambiguous, saying: \"Different countries have different approaches to dealing with these things. But the\u00a0nature of collaboration in confronting a global threat is that we work with people sometimes who do things somewhat different, slightly differently, from the way we do them ourselves.\"Government sources confirmed last night that the UK will extend offers to improve funding, military co-operation and police training to African states, after it was decided that \"diplomacy is not enough\" to head off the advance of Islamist radicalism across the continent. \"We have spent years using diplomacy, and improving relations, to argue for greater recognition of the threat posed by al-Qa'ida in this region, and greater resistance to it,\" a senior government source said last night. \"It has worked, to a degree, but we need more direct engagement.\"US Defence Secretary Panetta yesterday made clear that Washington believed the 12-year \"war on terror\" was still going and had renewed its focus in North Africa. Washington, London and EU governments will increase intelligence sharing, military aid and training to states within the \"corridor of terror\" at risk from al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb. Mr Panetta told Radio 4's Today programme yesterday: \"This is a war. It is the war on terrorism.\"Standing alongside Mr Hammond at the London press conference, Mr Panetta said: \"Terrorists should be on notice that they will find no sanctuary, no refuge, not in Algeria, not in North Africa, not anywhere... Those who would wantonly attack our country and our people will have no place to hide.\"As the final assault on the In Amenas plant was launched, Mr Hague chaired a meeting of the Government's Cobra committee, declaring that dealing with the crisis and ensuring the safety of all Britons remained his \"top priority\".By yesterday afternoon, Britain's ambassador was finally allowed to visit the scene of the hostage-taking after two days of attempts to get consular assistance to Britons involved in the crisis.At 5pm yesterday, Mr Cameron spoke to the Algerian Prime Minister, Abdelmalek Sellal, who confirmed the crisis was over. No 10 said there would be a fresh Cobra meeting to discuss the endgame.With the four-day hostage crisis over, energy industry sources suggested BP and other companies with interests in North Africa would have to reconsider its gas exploration for fear of copycat attacks on their workers. It is understood that BP had been granted new exploration licences in Libya days before the hostage-taking and, although the company is unlikely to be forced out of Algeria, would have to scale back its ambitions in the wider region. Drilling by Total of France, Norway's Statoil and Italy's Eni SpA might also be affected by the hostage crisis.Days of terror* Algerian special forces storm In Amenas gas complex to end four-day hostage crisis.* Thirty-two terrorists and 23 hostages dead at the plant.* Operation triggered by fears attackers would blow up refinery.* At least five Britons and one UK resident dead or unaccounted for.* French President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande backs Algerian action.* US and Britain vow to step up activities to combat new African \"corridor of terror\".","BP may be forced to reconsider further gas exploration in North Africa as a result of the Algerian hostage crisis, fearing more targeted attacks against its workers in the region, industry sources said yesterday.The British energy giant is Algeria's largest investor in a country that is the third-largest supplier of gas to the EU. BP, already a major investor in Libya, had been granted new gas licences in the country days before Islamic terrorists took over the In\u00a0Amenas gas plant near the Algerian/Libyan border.With Bob Dudley, BP's chief executive, warning last night that there remained \"grave fears\" for some of his workers, senior industry insiders said there would have to be careful consideration of security and protection from al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) before BP further expanded in the region.A source said: \"The Algerians are very security conscious, and they have to be. They have a massive problem, as does Libya, as does Morocco. This is a serious issue. Algeria will not take any messing around with security, because gas exports are essential to them.\"But BP will want to look at this again, as security is the key aspect. If there was a reason why they wouldn't want to invest, it would be because of security.\"It is unlikely that BP will scale back operations in Algeria, but the source said that expansion across the region would need to be reconsidered.While the short-term threat to European gas supplies from the crisis appeared to be minimal, there is now a longer-term risk to supply. Western energy companies with workers in other plants in Algeria evacuated some staff while the hostage crisis was ongoing.Drilling by Total of France and Italy's Eni SpA might also be affected by the hostage crisis, said the sources. BP, Norway's Statoil and Spain's Compa\u00f1ia Espa\u00f1ola de Petroleos SA evacuated workers from other Algerian energy facilities as the crisis unfolded. Helge Lund, Statoil's chief executive, said about 40 non-essential staff would be flown back to Norway. BP was also evacuating some non-essential workers.Algeria's oil and gas exports are the country's dominant industry, with energy accounting for 70 per cent of tax revenues and 98 per cent of its exports. Key markets are Italy, which gets a third of its gas from Algeria, and Spain, which receives half of its supplies from there. Algeria sends a small amount of gas to the UK. It is also a major oil producer.While gas prices rose in Italy in the wake of the hostage-taking, they fell again on Friday after flows were restored.The issue of securing gas and oil supplies in the Middle East and North Africa is not as important to Washington as it was a decade ago, when the US was preparing to invade Iraq. The US is becoming increasingly reliant on its own resources, particularly shale gas, with production expected to increase fourfold in the next 20 years.The situation is more precarious in the UK. Despite the coalition giving the green light last month to shale gas exploration, there is not the vast open space in this country to allow for fracking, meaning the UK must look for a diversity of supplies, including oil and gas from Europe, the Middle East and Asia, as well as renewable energy and nuclear power. Last week, the leak in the Brent oil pipeline in the North Sea, now being brought under control, underlined the continuing fragility of supply.Dr John Burman of Cambridge Global Research Ltd, a consultancy advising financial institutions on their Middle East investments, said: \"For the UK, in particular, Algerian gas is more of an issue than Algerian oil. Algeria is a smaller producer than, say, Qatar, but it is still a major gas player. The problem for Algeria is that gas exploration and extraction requires significant levels of technological investment. If the energy majors are pulling out because of the terrorist threat, Algeria's gas industry will suffer acutely.\"BP, Statoil, and the Algerian state oil company, Sonatrach, operate the In Amenas gas field, supplying 12 per cent of Algeria's natural gas output."]},{"x":0.480822775022198,"y":0.253046403361073,"no_docs":33,"words":[{"prob":2.64809596316158e-05,"word":"police"},{"prob":1.18708162360471e-05,"word":"mr"},{"prob":1.18708162360471e-05,"word":"court"},{"prob":1.18708162360471e-05,"word":"public"},{"prob":0.00319016982295492,"word":"told"},{"prob":1.18708162360471e-05,"word":"information"},{"prob":1.18708162360471e-05,"word":"officers"}],"docs":["A fully-fledged investigation has been launched into allegations that politicians abused children in London in the 1980s.Operation Fernbridge will centre on activities at the Elm Guest House in Rocks Lane, a suburban street in Barnes, south-west London.The Labour MP in the Commons in October that politicians belonging to a paedophile network had used their powerful connections to escape justice.Tom Watson allegedIn a short statement tonight, the Metropolitan Police said: \u201cThe Metropolitan Police Service have today, Thursday 17 January, launched an investigation, Operation Fernbridge, into historic allegations of child abuse in the early 1980s at the Elm Guest House, Rocks Lane, Barnes, London.\u201cThe investigation will be led by the Child Abuse Investigation Command. Anyone with information is asked to contact officers on 020 7161 0500.\u201dIt added: \u201cThe allegations under Operation Fernbridge were initially assessed under Operation Fairbank which was information passed to police by MP Tom Watson. Operation Fernbridge reached the threshold for a criminal investigation.\u201cWe will not be providing a running commentary on this inquiry.\u201dThe police stressed that the allegations were historic and did not relate to the current occupants of the property.","A group of women who were tricked into having sexual relationships by undercover police officers have won a partial legal victory to have their damages claims heard in open court.The women say they were targeted by officers who specialised in infiltrating protest movements in a series of cases that stretch back to the late 1980s. They are suing the Metropolitan and South Wales police for emotional, psychiatric and financial damages.Both forces wanted all the cases to be heard in the Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT), a highly secretive court which usually deals with complaints against the security services and has been criticised as being overly opaque.But today a High Court judge ruled that a number of civil claims must be heard in the public civil courts.However Mr Justice Tugendhat also ruled that some of the more recent cases need to go through the IPT\u00a0 before they can be heard in the\u00a0 High Court.The decision means that evidence relating to how the police managed Mark Kennedy, an undercover\u00a0 officer who was exposed in 2011 as a police source within environmental movements, is less likely to become public.The outing of PC Kennedy as an\u00a0 undercover informant sent shock waves through the Met Police and led to the convictions of a number of environmental protesters being quashed. After years undercover he appeared to switch sides and offered to appear on behalf of the defence.Another officer who is accused of having relationships with activists according to yesterday\u2019s judgement is Mark Jacobs, an officer who infiltrated a group of Welsh anarchists.Speaking at the High Court, Justice Tugendhat recognised that the allegations against the police were \u201cvery serious\u201d.\u201cNo action against the police alleging sexual abuse of the kind in question in these actions has been brought before the courts in the past, so far as I have been made aware,\u201d he said.He likened the cases to James Bond, the fictional security services operative who regularly \u201cused relationships with women to obtain information, or access to persons or property\u201d.Although Ian Fleming, the writer of the Bond series, did not dwell on \u201cpsychological harm he might have done to the women concerned\u201d, the judge said, his fictional accounts pointed to how \u201cintelligence and police services have for many years deployed both men and women officers to form personal relationships of an intimate sexual nature\u201d.Lawyers for the 10 women \u2013 and one man who claims his girlfriend was seduced \u2013 say they want to expose what authorisation was given by senior officers to approve seduction as a legitimate information gathering technique. They are determined to avoid hearing the cases in the IPT because they claim their clients are unable to see or contest police evidence there.The cases which have to go before the IPT concern allegations that occurred after 2000 when the Human Rights Act came into force. The judge ruled that the Human Rights Act claims have to go before the IPT.The women\u2019s lawyers said they would now consider whether to appeal the decision. A statement by the Met Police gave no indication whether they would also appeal.Secret service: Tribunal powersThe Investigatory Powers Tribunal is one of the most secretive judicial bodies in the country. It is independent of the British government and is used to decide on complaints against surveillance by public bodies.That means the tribunal can investigate anything from council snooping to national security spying \u2013 making it the only body which can investigate MI5, MI6 and GCHQ.The tribunal was established in 2000 by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA). Currently headed by the Court of Appeal judge Lord Justice Mummery, it has been criticised for being highly secretive. It is expect from freedom of information requests, it holds most of its hearings in private, there is no obligation to take oral evidence and many of the final judgements are not published.Those submitting claims against surveillance have complained that they are usually unable to contest the evidence against them because they cannot see it. It also rarely finds in favour of claimants. Between 2000 and 2010 of the complaints we know about only ten were upheld out of 1120.","A 14-year-old girl who went to the police after allegedly being beaten up and repeatedly raped by a member of a child sex trafficking ring was persuaded to drop her complaint by another girl who was \u201cseeing\u201d her attacker, a court heard today.The jury in the trial of nine men alleged to have run the Oxford gang were also told of second alleged victim who, it is said, was made to have an illegal abortion after being impregnated by one of the defendants just after her twelfth birthday. The girl claims she was also beaten for falling pregnant.The allegations form just a small part of the case outlined by the prosecution against the alleged child sex traffickers, who are standing trial at the Old Bailey on a total of 51 rape, sexual assault and drugs charges.The court heard that in November 2006 the 14-year-old, one of six who have accused the men of a string of offences, was attacked, beaten and raped by Bassam Karrar before a neighbour called the police.Noel Lucas QC, acting for the prosecution, said officers found her in the basement \u201cextremely distressed, crying and shaking\u201d. Mr Lucas said she told her attacker she was pregnant in a bid to stop the violence but this only incensed him further and he began shouting verbal abuse.The girl told police she had been held against her will, raped and repeatedly smacked in the face. She also claimed her head had been held under a shower and that she had been injected with a drug, the court heard. But she later dropped the complaint.Opening the prosecution\u2019s case today, Mr Lucas QC described the shocking sexual abuse the men are alleged to have subjected the girls to over nearly eight years. He said that one of the girls says she was \u201csold\u201d to a member of the gang by another man at the age of 11. She says she was then sexually groomed and raped until she was 15, as well as being injected with heroin.Mr Lucas QC said the girl alleges that the defendant Mohammed Karrar told her he intended to make back the money he paid for her and later branded her with a hot piece of metal he had bent into an \u2018M\u2019 shape.He told the court: \u201cThis brief summary of the very extensive and persistent abuse [the girl] suffered at the hands of Mohammed Karrar illustrates his view of her as something to be used and abused at will. He regarded her as his property. He showed her no regard.The prosecution also described how the girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, accuses two of the defendants when she was aged 11 \u2013 15, of making arrangements and taking her \u201cto various locations where other men paid [them] to sexually use and abuse her\u201d.The alleged sex trafficking ring was arrested by Thames Valley police early last year. Kamar Jamil, 27, Assad Hussain, 32, and Bilal Ahmed, 26 are standing trial. They are joined by two sets of brothers: Akhtar, 32, and Anjum Dogar, 30; and Mohammed, 38, and Bassam Karrar, 32. Also charged are Mohammed Hussain, 24, and Zeeshan Ahmed, 27.On Tuesday, Mr Lucas QC told the jury: \u201cThe evidence will show that these men, sometimes acting in groups and at other times separately, targeted vulnerable young girls between the ages of 11 and 12 and up to 15.\u201dThe nine defendants deny all of the charges. The case continues.","The dawn raid and arrest this morning at the Hertfordshire home of the Sun\u2019s crime correspondent, Anthony France, has sent shockwaves through the new management regime at News International in London, with senior sources revealing that those at the top of the Murdoch-owned company mistakenly believed Scotland Yard\u2019s corruption-related arrests had ended.Journalists in the Sun\u2019s newsroom were described by angry insiders as \u201cclose to boiling point\u201d with many believing that at least another 10 arrests may still follow.Mr France, 39, was detained and questioned at a police station in north London over suspicion of making illegal payments to public officials.\u00a0Two serving\u00a0 Metropolitan Police officers, one from the force\u2019s Specialist Crime and Operations Command, the other from the specialist operations unit, were also arrested and questioned on suspicion of misconduct in public office.The crime correspondent, with a reputation for obtaining major undercover exclusives that included an expose of a security flaw in Westminster, is the 22nd Sun journalist to be arrested as part of the Met\u2019s probes into phone hacking and\u00a0 alleged corruption of officials in public office\u00a0 between 2004 and 2011.News of the journalist\u2019s arrest was broken in an email message to staff by the new chief executive of News International, Mike Darcey, who has only recent taken the helm at the company\u2019s Wapping headquarters following the departure of Tom Mockridge.Mr Darcey\u2019s message to NI staff\u00a0 said he was \u201cvery sorry\u201d to announce the arrest\u00a0 and that he \u201cappreciated how hard it was to hear this news\u201d. He added\u00a0 it was \u201cparticularly disappointing that these incidents, the first under my watch, and which have become less frequent, continue to take place.\u201dPromises that legal support for Mr France would be provided, and that information on the state of the police investigation would be called for, appears to have done little to improve morale on UK\u2019s leading redtop.Most of\u00a0 the NI arrests are related to information\u00a0 or investigative leads that have been provided by News Corporation\u2019s Management and Standards Committee (MSC).\u00a0 Over 300 million internal emails have been be searched using \u201ckey words\u201d technology . The process has identified emails and other messages\u00a0 which the Met \u2018s anti-corruption investigation, Operation Elveden, regards as potential criminal evidence.Scotland Yard said today that the latest arrests followed information that had been passed to them from the MSC.A Met statement said the arrests \u201crelate to payments to\u00a0 police officers and are not about seeking journalists to reveal confidential sources in relation to information that has been obtained legitimately.\u201dMr Darcey, who was previously BSkyB\u2019s number two before he took over from Mr Mockridge at the end of last year, worked closely with James\u00a0 Murdoch during his time at the satellite broadcaster.The chief executive\u2019s claim to have been \u201cdisappointed\u201d\u00a0 by the arrest of Mr France,\u00a0 indicates that the internal independence of the MSC, which allegedly operates a Chinese wall between itself and NI, is still in force.\u00a0 The MSC, chaired by Lord Grabiner,\u00a0 reports to Gerson Zweisach, News Corp's general counsel in New York.At the beginning of this month\u00a0 Mr France wrote a story in the Sun which claimed five police officers and a civilian worker had been \u201caxed or forced to resign\u201d from the Met\u2019s hacking and anti-corruption investigations team.\u00a0 He claimed the departures were over \u201cserious misconduct\u201d.\u00a0Scotland Yard did not confirm the allegations made in the story.","The jailed son of the late dictator Muammar Gaddafi has made his first appearance in a local court on charges of harming state security, attempting to escape prison and insulting the nation's new flag.Seif al-Islam Gaddafi, the ousted leader's long-time heir apparent, appeared in court in the western town of Zintan where he is being held by militiamen, the official Libyan news agency LANA says.It says the trial is linked to his June meeting with an International Criminal Court delegation accused of smuggling documents to him.The delegation included a lawyer assigned by ICC to represent Seif al-Islam in a separate case in which he is charged with crimes against humanity during the 2011 popular uprising against his father's four-decade rule.The trial was adjourned until May.AP","The dawn raid and arrest this morning at the Hertfordshire home of the Sun\u2019s crime correspondent, Anthony France, has sent shockwaves through the new management regime at News International in London, with senior sources revealing that those at the top of the Murdoch-owned company mistakenly believed Scotland Yard\u2019s corruption-related arrests had ended.Journalists in the Sun\u2019s newsroom were described by angry insiders as \u201cclose to boiling point\u201d with many believing that at least another 10 arrests may still follow.Mr France, 39, was detained and questioned at a police station in north London over suspicion of making illegal payments to public officials.\u00a0Two serving\u00a0 Metropolitan Police officers, one from the force\u2019s Specialist Crime and Operations Command, the other from the specialist operations unit, were also arrested and questioned on suspicion of misconduct in public office.The crime correspondent, with a reputation for obtaining major undercover exclusives that included an expose of a security flaw in Westminster, is the 22nd Sun journalist to be arrested as part of the Met\u2019s probes into phone hacking and\u00a0 alleged corruption of officials in public office\u00a0 between 2004 and 2011.News of the journalist\u2019s arrest was broken in an email message to staff by the new chief executive of News International, Mike Darcey, who has only recent taken the helm at the company\u2019s Wapping headquarters following the departure of Tom Mockridge.Mr Darcey\u2019s message to NI staff\u00a0 said he was \u201cvery sorry\u201d to announce the arrest\u00a0 and that he \u201cappreciated how hard it was to hear this news\u201d. He added\u00a0 it was \u201cparticularly disappointing that these incidents, the first under my watch, and which have become less frequent, continue to take place.\u201dPromises that legal support for Mr France would be provided, and that information on the state of the police investigation would be called for, appears to have done little to improve morale on UK\u2019s leading redtop.Most of\u00a0 the NI arrests are related to information\u00a0 or investigative leads that have been provided by News Corporation\u2019s Management and Standards Committee (MSC).\u00a0 Over 300 million internal emails have been be searched using \u201ckey words\u201d technology . The process has identified emails and other messages\u00a0 which the Met \u2018s anti-corruption investigation, Operation Elveden, regards as potential criminal evidence.Scotland Yard said today that the latest arrests followed information that had been passed to them from the MSC.A Met statement said the arrests \u201crelate to payments to\u00a0 police officers and are not about seeking journalists to reveal confidential sources in relation to information that has been obtained legitimately.\u201dMr Darcey, who was previously BSkyB\u2019s number two before he took over from Mr Mockridge at the end of last year, worked closely with James\u00a0 Murdoch during his time at the satellite broadcaster.The chief executive\u2019s claim to have been \u201cdisappointed\u201d\u00a0 by the arrest of Mr France,\u00a0 indicates that the internal independence of the MSC, which allegedly operates a Chinese wall between itself and NI, is still in force.\u00a0 The MSC, chaired by Lord Grabiner,\u00a0 reports to Gerson Zweisach, News Corp's general counsel in New York.At the beginning of this month\u00a0 Mr France wrote a story in the Sun which claimed five police officers and a civilian worker had been \u201caxed or forced to resign\u201d from the Met\u2019s hacking and anti-corruption investigations team.\u00a0 He claimed the departures were over \u201cserious misconduct\u201d.\u00a0Scotland Yard did not confirm the allegations made in the story.","A man has been charged with possession of a sub machine gun as part of an investigation by counter-terrorism detectives, Scotland Yard said.Mohamed Elyasse Taleouine, 20, from Edgware, north London, will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court this afternoon charged with possessing the gun and bullets.Scotland Yard said it is alleged that on January 10 he had a Mac-10 style sub machine gun and 24 live 9mm cartridges.Taleouine was arrested on January 10 by officers investigating alleged support for travel overseas for\u00a0terrorism, and today he was charged with the two firearms counts but no\u00a0terrorism offences.He was held with another man, aged 37, outside a business in west London. The second man was released without charge yesterday.PA","A 14-year-old girl who went to the police after allegedly being beaten up and repeatedly raped by a member of a child sex trafficking ring was persuaded to drop her complaint by another girl who was \u201cseeing\u201d her attacker, a court heard today.The jury in the trial of nine men alleged to have run the Oxford gang were also told of second alleged victim who, it is said, was made to have an illegal abortion after being impregnated by one of the defendants just after her twelfth birthday. The girl claims she was also beaten for falling pregnant.The allegations form just a small part of the case outlined by the prosecution against the alleged child sex traffickers, who are standing trial at the Old Bailey on a total of 51 rape, sexual assault and drugs charges.The court heard that in November 2006 the 14-year-old, one of six who have accused the men of a string of offences, was attacked, beaten and raped by Bassam Karrar before a neighbour called the police.Noel Lucas QC, acting for the prosecution, said officers found her in the basement \u201cextremely distressed, crying and shaking\u201d. Mr Lucas said she told her attacker she was pregnant in a bid to stop the violence but this only incensed him further and he began shouting verbal abuse.The girl told police she had been held against her will, raped and repeatedly smacked in the face. She also claimed her head had been held under a shower and that she had been injected with a drug, the court heard. But she later dropped the complaint.Opening the prosecution\u2019s case today, Mr Lucas QC described the shocking sexual abuse the men are alleged to have subjected the girls to over nearly eight years. He said that one of the girls says she was \u201csold\u201d to a member of the gang by another man at the age of 11. She says she was then sexually groomed and raped until she was 15, as well as being injected with heroin.Mr Lucas QC said the girl alleges that the defendant Mohammed Karrar told her he intended to make back the money he paid for her and later branded her with a hot piece of metal he had bent into an \u2018M\u2019 shape.He told the court: \u201cThis brief summary of the very extensive and persistent abuse [the girl] suffered at the hands of Mohammed Karrar illustrates his view of her as something to be used and abused at will. He regarded her as his property. He showed her no regard.The prosecution also described how the girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, accuses two of the defendants when she was aged 11 \u2013 15, of making arrangements and taking her \u201cto various locations where other men paid [them] to sexually use and abuse her\u201d.The alleged sex trafficking ring was arrested by Thames Valley police early last year. Kamar Jamil, 27, Assad Hussain, 32, and Bilal Ahmed, 26 are standing trial. They are joined by two sets of brothers: Akhtar, 32, and Anjum Dogar, 30; and Mohammed, 38, and Bassam Karrar, 32. Also charged are Mohammed Hussain, 24, and Zeeshan Ahmed, 27.On Tuesday, Mr Lucas QC told the jury: \u201cThe evidence will show that these men, sometimes acting in groups and at other times separately, targeted vulnerable young girls between the ages of 11 and 12 and up to 15.\u201dThe nine defendants deny all of the charges. The case continues.","Doctors have asked a court to decide whether a refugee on hunger strike can be forcibly fed. The man, who cannot be named for legal reasons and is referred to in court documents as \u201cA\u201d, went on hunger strike to demand that the UK Border Agency returns his passport.But there are concerns that he may have limited mental capacity so the Court of Protection has been asked to decide whether doctors should end the hunger strike.The Court of Protection deals with those who lack the ability to make key decisions about their life because of limited mental or physical capacity. Most hearings are held in private but cases where \u201cserious medical treatment\u201d is needed are frequently open to the press with the identities of patients obscured to protect their privacy.The case centres around the thorny issue of whether the man has enough capacity to decide whether he can starve himself in protest at how he is being treated by the British authorities. A person with full capacity could not be forcibly fed by doctors if their wish to go on hunger strike was made freely.An unnamed NHS Trust, however, wants to administer \u201cartificial nutrition and hydration\u201d to the man. A preliminary hearing took place this week but the court will meet for a substantive hearing on 30 January.","One of the two Luqman brothers being hunted in Pakistan for defrauding Barclays Bank out of \u00a3100m has been jailed for seven-and-a-half years in his absence.A jury at Manchester Crown Court on 16 June convicted Waheed Luqman, 39, of fraud and false accounting at Lexi Holdings, a Manchester bridging loan firm that collapsed in 2009 with debts of more than \u00a3120m.Waheed and his brother Shaid \"Lucky\" Luqman, 43, who was the Ernst &amp; Young Young Entrepreneur of 2004, are believed to be in Pakistan with their sisters.Despite an earlier conviction for deception when renting flats to university students, Shaid Luqman obtained loans from Barclays and other high street banks for two bridging loan firms. He lived in a \u00a35m house in Cheshire, operated a private jet and was ranked 238rd on the 2006 Sunday Times Rich List, just before being banned in 2007 from running a company for 15 years. He managed to leave Britain despite being ordered to wear an electronic tag after trying to obtain a replacement passport.Waheed Luqman was tried in his absence and jailed for seven years and six months for conspiracy to defraud creditors of Pearl Holdings (Europe) Ltd, later known as Lexi Holdings plc, and four years and six months on counts of conspiracy to falsely account. He was also disqualified as a company director for 15 years and ordered to pay the Serious Fraud Office costs of \u00a3250,000.In a statement today, the SFO said: \"His brother, Shaid Luqman, the main perpetrator of the fraud, fled the jurisdiction in June 2011 before he could be charged.\"Their activities triggered a civil action described by legal authorities as the most important land law decision for a hundred years.The Yorkshire property developer Trevor Guy has so far failed to reverse a court ruling that allowed Barclays Bank to seize 48 acres of land in Manchester. The land was fraudulently staked against \u00a3120m of Barclays loans to Lexi.The case has involved a re-examination of Land Registry computer procedures for the 21 million British property owners registered on the biggest property computer database in Europe.","A man has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of a four-year-old boy.The 32-year-old from Keighley, West Yorkshire, is being held after the child was pronounced dead in hospital.Police were called by paramedics to a home in Harewood Road in Oakworth, Keighley, after reports that a four-year-old had died, police said.The boy was taken to Airedale General Hospital where he was pronounced dead.A murder investigation was launched by West Yorkshire Police's Homicide and Major Enquiry Team.The 32-year-old man was arrested at an address in the Ingrow area of Keighley.A West Yorkshire Police spokesman said: \u201cThe man was arrested on suspicion of murder and is currently in police custody.\u201cEnquiries are ongoing and no further details are expected to be released today.\u201d","A man who was shot by police using a Taser during his arrest has died in hospital.Martin Baskeyfield was detained for motoring offences on September 29 last year. During the arrest he was subdued by officers who shot him using the Taser stun-gun.Five days later he was admitted to the University Hospital of North Staffordshire, but died on January 14 2013.Charges for motoring offences levelled against Mr Baskeyfield were withdrawn following his death.Medical tests are now being carried out to determine whether there is any link between the use of the Taser, more than three months ago, and Mr Baskeyfield's recent death.Following his arrest, Mr Baskeyfield's relatives made a complaint to Staffordshire Police over the level of force used.The force then referred the incident to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC).An IPCC spokesman said: \u201cThe IPCC is independently investigating the arrest of Martin Baskeyfield, in Stoke-on-Trent.\u201cDuring the arrest in Cotterill Grove, he was Tasered and was later charged with offences and released on bail.\u201cOn 9 October 2012, Staffordshire Police received a complaint about the police use of force during the arrest.\u201cThe IPCC investigation continues into the full circumstances of the arrest.\u201cSadly, Mr Baskeyfield passed away in hospital on January 14 this year.\u201cA Home Office post-mortem is being conducted to determine cause of death and the coroner has been informed.\u201dStaffordshire Police said it is co-operating fully with the IPCC investigation.","When Loris Cereda, the then mayor of the Mob-infiltrated town of Buccinasco near Milan, was filmed in March 2011 allegedly taking a \u20ac10,000 (\u00a38,500) bung in exchange for handing out a lucrative public contract for a shopping centre, people sighed, but no one was terribly surprised.But underlining how there\u2019s no apparent end to the perfidy of Italy\u2019s public officials, Mr Cereda has now become the first person ever to be kicked out of the Italian Chess Federation.During three recent league games, Mr Cereda\u2019s mediocre playing level suddenly and mysteriously rose to that approaching an international master, say his accusers. And this improvement in form coincided with him wearing strange, thick-set dark glasses.Following his Bobby Fischer moves and the Roy Orbison shades, several players complained and the federation earlier this week suspended Mr Cereda, who is a member of Silvio Berlusconi\u2019s PDL (People of Freedom Party). The federation claims he had a tiny camera installed in the specs and an earpiece conveying advice from someone with access to a powerful chess computer \u2013 allegations the former mayor denies.\u201cI\u2019ve never cheated nor used strange technology during the matches,\u201d said Mr Cereda, who is currently on trial following the alleged 2011 bribery incident in which he was seen on CCTV being presented with a bag containing \u20ac10,000 by the construction firm and then walking off with it.\u201cThere are some tournaments in which I played well but many others which went badly. Nearly all the tournaments are played in the presence of a referee and a fair number of spectators,\u201d he told . \u201cI\u2019ve never been less than a good sport \u2013and as someone who loves this sport, I could not, or even imagine doing such a thing.\u201dLa Gazzetta dello SportBut Rosa Palone, the president of Buccinasco\u2019s town council and a member of the centre-left Democratic Party, said the case of Mr Cereda was \u201ca worrying indication\u201d of the problem of corruption among Italy\u2019s public officials.\u201cCereda claims he\u2019s very good at chess, but it seems even that\u2019s not true. And with the bribery case he appeared to be caught red-handed but he still denied it. It\u2019s almost as if it\u2019s accepted that an official will profit from his position,\u201d she told . \u201cThese things are scandalous, but people are no longer shocked by them.The Independent\u201cI\u2019m not sure what the answer is, but we could start by speeding up the courts process and handing out stiff penalties as a deterrent.\u201d","Police forces should no longer be allowed to store the personal information of peaceful protesters on a domestic extremism database if they are not linked to any crimes, a court heard today.Lawyers acting for 87-year-old John Catt, who has not been linked to any crimes at demonstrations he has attended, argued that police are maintaining a file on their client simply because his regular presence at protests, in contravention of his right to privacy.The case has major implications for the way the police go about placing protest groups under surveillance in the future.Tim Owen QC told the court that the police\u2019s current approach means that students who peacefully march at demonstrations where others are involved in violence could end up on the extremism database because they \u201chappen to be seen at another demonstration\u201d.He added that the effect of the police\u2019s surveillance of regular, peaceful protesters was that they would come to expect to be placed on a database of domestic extremists.And the court heard that the police had shown an \u201calmost knee-jerk response\u201d in presuming that anyone who turns up at a protest, regardless of what they do, \u201ctheir name goes on the list\u201d.Shamik Dutta of Bhatt Murphy said: \u201cThe Court of Appeal will determine whether protesters forego the right to privacy if they engage in peaceful protest. If the appeal is successful, police forces will need to review the way in which they gather and retain information about protesters who have never committed any offence\u201d.Mr Catt\u2019s lawyers did not argue against police officers placing protesters under surveillance where they thought there was a risk of disorder, but said that there was no reason to keep the information gathered once it became plain that the subject was not linked to any crime, either as a perpetrator or as a witness; as they said was the case with their client.Keeping the dossier, they argued, was in contravention of his right to privacy.The Equality and Human Rights Commission and Liberty have both been given permission to intervene. John Wadham, General Counsel of the ECHR, said: \u201cWe accept the need for there to be measures to ensure the safety of the public , but these need to be proportionate. The right to protest peacefully in public is a core human right and any measures that restrict this right should be subject to proper scrutiny.\u201cThe Commission is concerned that the retention of material on this database, and the inadequate safeguards for its proper use and deletion, are an unlawful breach of the right to freedom of speech and freedom of protest. The police now need to take measures to ensure that the information they hold does not contravene the law.\u201dMr Catt, who has been heavily involved with the Smash EDO campaign \u2013 among others, is appealing an earlier High Court ruling, which allowed police to keep photographs and other personal information belonging to him on the National Domestic Extremism Database. Last year, Mr Justice Irwin said that protesters registering their feelings in public had no reasonable expectation of privacy.The first case followed the refusal of the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) to permanently delete all the data retained about Mr Catt, who found 66 entries about him had been made on the National Domestic Extremism Database, including one about his appearance.His appeal is being heard in the High Court by the Master of the Rolls Lord Dyson, Lord Justice Patten and Lord Justice Tomlinson and continues tomorrow.","Allegations that British troops in Iraq were guilty of killing civilians and \u201cterrifying acts of brutality\u201d were made at the High Court today.Women, the elderly and children were among the victims of indiscriminate action following the invasion of Iraq, according to an 82-page document put before two judges.Lawyers representing nearly 200 Iraqis are seeking a public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0into allegations that British interrogators were guilty of a number of unlawful killings as well as incidents of torture in British-controlled detention facilities.Defence Secretary Philip Hammond is investigating the claims through the Iraq Historic Allegations Team (IHAT).But Public Interest Lawyers (PIL), which is acting for 192 Iraqis, say IHAT is not sufficiently independent to investigate alleged \"systemic\" human rights violations on a huge scale.PIL argues there has already been too long a delay and only a fully independent\u00a0inquiry\u00a0can deliver justice.Michael Fordham QC, appearing for the Iraqis, said at the start of a three-day hearing at London's High Court: \"Enough is enough. There must be a public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0in relation to the credible and prima facie cases of human rights violations perpetrated by the British military in Iraq from 2003-09.\"The QC told Sir John Thomas, president of the Queen's Bench Division, and Mr Justice Silber it was necessary \"for somebody independent to grasp this nettle and pursue the truth of what happened, and its implications, compatibly with the rule of law. That is the big point\".Mr Fordham said the decision to allow officers of the Royal Navy Police to sit as members of IHAT, when numerous Royal Navy officers were involved in interrogations, did not satisfy \"the relevant standard of independence\" required by a truly independent\u00a0inquiry.PIL says, in addition to the 192 civilians represented today, more than 800 others are making allegations against the British military.Out of court, a Ministry of Defence spokeswoman said of compensation claims made by Iraqis: \"We have now settled 227 claims to a total value of \u00a315.1 million.\"Since last December, the MoD had reached agreement in a further 22 claims, with a total sum of just over \u00a31.1 million.But the MoD argues a public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0would be \"premature and disproportionate\".The MoD spokeswoman said: \"The establishment now of a wide-ranging public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0to consider alleged systemic issues would be premature and disproportionate.\"It is also likely that any single public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0would take much longer than the investigations already being undertaken.\"It is important we allow the IHAT to get on with this important work and not be distracted by challenges to its competence and independence.\"The MoD takes all allegations of abuse seriously which is precisely why we set up the Iraq Historic Allegations Team to ensure that all allegations are, or have been, investigated appropriately.\"We await the conclusions of the ongoing IHAT investigations and inquiries and will respond to all of their recommendations in due course.\"Last year the Court of Appeal ruled that IHAT lacked \"the requisite independence\" and said ministers had failed to comply with obligations under human rights legislation.In the wake of that ruling, ministers removed the Royal Military Police from IHAT and replaced them with officers of the Royal Navy Police.But the Iraqis say that does not go far enough and a fully independent, judge-led\u00a0inquiry\u00a0remains necessary.Today Mr Fordham said it was \"undeniable\" that allegations of systemic abuse fell within the ambit of human rights legislation protecting against inhuman and degrading treatment.He said Killings and deaths in custody \"cry out for a public domain investigation\".The MoD argues that the claim that the Royal Navy Police are not sufficiently independent is \"inconsistent\" with the appeal court decision.Establishing a wide-ranging public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0now, while the investigation of individual cases was taking place, would be \"inefficient, premature and disproportionate\".MoD lawyers say the Defence Secretary will continue to give \"anxious consideration\" to the IHAT investigations.In written MoD submissions to the court, prepared by Philip Havers QC and James Eadie QC, it is stated that if evidence of systemic abuse of civilians does emerge, consideration will then be given to holding \"a broad-ranging public\u00a0inquiry\" along the lines contended for by the Iraqi applicants.The MoD lawyers also say: \"Comprehensive steps have been taken by the secretary of state, and will continue to be taken, to ensure lessons are learned from events in Iraq.\"In particular ... a significant amount of work has already been done to ensure that MoD policies and training on tactical questioning and interrogation (TQ&amp;I) are lawful and fit for purpose.\"Speaking outside the Royal\u00a0Courts\u00a0of Justice, Phil Shiner, from Public Interest Lawyers, said there are \"hundreds and hundreds\" of Iraqis with \"tens of thousands\" of allegations of mistreatment.\"Some of the cases are truly shocking,\" he said. \"A 62-year-old grandmother who is led away alive, she is seen by her husband and her son alive, then found a few hours later in a British body bag very much dead, with signs of torture.\"I could go on and on and on.\"He said the abuse was systemic and only a public\u00a0inquiry\u00a0would see it properly investigated, rather than IHAT and the Royal Navy Police.\"The military can't investigate themselves, we need an independent judicial process here in London.\"There are systemic issues, it must be that those at the top of the military chain of command and the Civil Service knew or ought to have known what was going on.\"Mr Shiner said abuse included unlawful detention, deaths in custody, and sexual techniques including threats of rape to Iraqi men as well as their wives.He said the allegations needed to be tested thoroughly, but added: \"These allegations need to be verified before a judge-led\u00a0inquiry.\"But over nine years of acting for Iraqis, not one of my clients has been held to be over-egging the pudding or not to be telling the truth.\"It's easy to say they are mere allegations, there do need to be tests, I think it's exactly right, that needs to be done in public.\"The public need to be able to trust it, to say, 'Have you actually got your house in order?', so that next time there's an Iraq, what is done in our name won't be so shameful and plainly unlawful.\"The dossier of alleged abuse before the court includes accusations of brutality by British soldiers on authorised \"strike operations\" to arrest specific targets for internment.The dossier states: \"Strike operations are known to have involved patterns of prime facie killings, together with terrifying acts of brutality\".There had been \"abuse, intimidation and harm\" with \"indiscriminate action including women, the elderly and children\".The dossier, contained in a skeleton argument prepared by the PIL legal team, includes illustrations of hooded detainees, a video still of a civilian allegedly being beaten inside a vehicle and a kneeling man being threatened with a dog.The dossier highlights reported deaths of Iraqis, including a man allegedly shot dead by British soldiers while queuing to buy petrol and another found drowned in the Shatt Al-Arab river after allegedly being beaten by soldiers.Other deaths are recorded of individuals held in custody or allegedly shot by military patrols or during strike operations.The court was told that the evidence revealed \"a pattern of brutality on capture\", as described in a leaked 2004 report of the International Committee of the Red Cross.A \"highly respected\" tribal chief was arrested in a violent raid on his home, says the dossier, and \"utterly humiliated when his genitals were exposed to the rest of the household, including the women\".Another detainee described how troops allegedly left his children in a room on their own \"and smashed all the furniture around them\".Other detainees allegedly suffered ill treatment when being transported to detention centres, one of whom was said to have died aboard a Chinook helicopter.Civilian detainees are alleged to have been subjected to a number of techniques to disorientate and debilitate them, including deprivation of sleep, food and water.British troops are also accused of imposing hooding, forced nudity, sexual humiliation and repeated and lengthy interrogations.PA","A 52-year-old man has been arrested by detectives investigating computer hacking linked to business espionage, Scotland Yard said today.The man was held at around 7am at his home in Oxfordshire on suspicion of offences under the Computer Misuse Act.He is currently being questioned and his home is being searched, police said.The arrest was carried out under Operation Tuleta, an investigation into alleged computer hacking and other privacy breaches.It falls under part of the inquiry that is looking at suspected business espionage.Today's arrest brings the number of people held under Operation Tuleta to 20.Tuleta is being run alongside two other investigations - Operation Elveden, which is looking at alleged corrupt payments to public officials, and Operation Weeting, the phone-hacking inquiry.Yesterday, a 42-year-old prison officer became the 58th person to be arrested under Operation Elveden.He was held at his home in Sittingbourne, Kent, on suspicion of conspiracy to cause misconduct in a public office.The man was later released on bail until March.So far, of those arrested under Elveden, eight people have or will face court proceedings and two - a retired police officer and a former journalist - have been told they will face no further action.A total of 26 people have been arrested under Operation Weeting and eight people have been charged.PA","The law which requires people to disclose all previous convictions to certain employers is a breach of human rights, the Court of Appeal ruled today.The declaration of incompatibility granted by three judges headed by the Master of the Rolls, Lord Dyson, was hailed as a victory for common sense by civil liberties campaigners.But, the Home Office said: \"The protection of children and vulnerable groups must not be compromised.\"We are disappointed by this judgment and are seeking leave to appeal to the Supreme Court.\"The judges said that neither the disclosure provisions of the Police Act 1997 nor those of an order made pursuant to the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 were compatible with Article 8, which relates to private and family life.They said it would be for Parliament to devise a \"proportionate\" scheme.Campaigners had called for urgent reform of blanket provisions in the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) system which mean employees must automatically disclose all convictions and cautions whether or not they are relevant to the job.Liberty and the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) intervened in the case of \"T\", a 21-year-old man who received warnings from Manchester Police when he was 11 years old in connection with two stolen bikes.This information was disclosed on two occasions: when he applied for a part-time job at a local football club at the age of 17 and later when he applied for a university course in sports studies.T's solicitor, Mike Pemberton, a partner and head of the Civil Liberties Unit at Stephensons Solicitors LLP, said: \"The warning which was issued when my client was 11 years old was for an alleged minor offence and was accepted in the presence of a parent, without taking into account how this may affect future employment.\"In this case, the continued reference to the warning has affected their ability to gain employment in specific roles. This is despite them having no further contact with the police and the judge in the High Court case commenting that their behaviour since childhood has been exemplary.\"It defies common sense that a minor caution at the age of 11 should have to be disclosed on every application for a job of certain types in the future. Furthermore, my client undergoes the rigmarole of having to explain the matter again and again.\"I welcome the judgment of the court which reflects that human rights do equal common sense.\"Liberty's legal officer, Corinna Ferguson, said: \"This sensible judgment requires the Government to introduce a more nuanced system for disclosing this type of sensitive personal data to employers.\"For too long irrelevant and unreliable information provided under the blanket CRB system has blighted people's lives. We hope that long overdue reforms - properly balancing the aim of public protection with privacy rights - will now be forthcoming.\"John Wadham, chief legal officer at the EHRC, said: \"Many of us have been in minor trouble with the law as children, which we regret at the time but we would not expect that to affect our ability to get a job later in life.\"However, if the police and other bodies can pass on this information without our knowledge it will have serious implications for our lives and careers.\"This is an important ruling to establish how the authorities deal with confidential information they hold which could have a negative impact on people's lives\"The fact that the court has made a declaration of incompatibility indicates the seriousness of the contravention of human rights obligations in this case, which Parliament must now correct without delay.\"Jon Brown, head of the NSPCC's sexual abuse programmes, said: \"Whatever the outcome of this legal wrangle, the protection of children is paramount.\"Any relevant information which sheds light on the suitability of people to work with them must be disclosed and if there is any doubt we must err on the side of caution.\"PA","Four men have been arrested on suspicion of sexually abusing a girl, police said.Officers investigating child exploitation in Buckinghamshire arrested the men in the High Wycombe area, Thames Valley Police said.The men, aged 19, 20, 21 and 22, are alleged to have committed \"various sexual offences\" against the girl and are currently in police custody.Area commander Superintendent Gilbert Houalla said: \"Today's arrests are a continuation of Operation Ribbon, which is an investigation that began last year into child sexual exploitation.\"This is not uncommon and one arrest often leads to others.\"I would like to assure you that the police in the Wycombe district will always protect the vulnerable and challenge any offenders without fear or favour, none of which could be done without the support of our community.\"Thames Valley Police said they believe it is likely there are more victims who have not spoken to officers, and encouraged them to come forward by calling 01296 396396.A spokesman said officers work closely with Buckinghamshire County Council's child protection team, and deal with each case with respect and confidentiality.Anyone worried about somebody who may be a victim of child exploitation can call the ChildLine charity on 0800 1111 or visit its website, , the force said.www.childline.org.ukPeople can also call Buckinghamshire County Council's First Response Team on 0845 4600 001 if they have any concerns around child sexual exploitation.If they do not want to speak to police they can call the Crimestoppers charity anonymously on 0800 555 111.PA","All personal information stored by British internet users on major \u201ccloud\u201d computing services including Google Drive can be spied upon routinely without their knowledge by US authorities under newly-approved legislation, it can be disclosed.Click to view graphicHERECloud computing has exploded in recent years as a flexible, cheap way for individuals, companies and government bodies to remotely store documents and data. According to some estimates, 35 per cent of UK firms use some sort of cloud system \u2013 with Google Drive, Apple iCloud and Amazon Cloud Drive the major players.But it has now emerged that all documents uploaded onto cloud systems based in the US or falling under Washington\u2019s jurisdiction can be accessed and analysed without a warrant by American security agencies.The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, known as FISA, allows US government agencies open access to any electronic information stored by non-American citizens by US-based companies. Quietly introduced during the dying days of President George W Bush\u2019s administration in 2008, it was renewed over Christmas 2012.But only now are privacy campaigners and legal experts waking up to the extent of the intrustion.Caspar Bowden, who served as Chief Privacy Adviser to Microsoft Europe for nine years until 2011, told : \u201cWhat this legislation means is that the US has been able to mine any foreign data in US Clouds since 2008, and nobody noticed.\u201dThe IndependentSignificantly, bodies such as the National Security Agency, the FBI and the CIA can gain access to any information that potentially concerns US foreign policy for purely political reasons \u2013 with no need for any suspicion that national security is at stake \u2013 meaning that religious groups, campaigning organisations and journalists could be targeted.The information can be intercepted and stored in bulk as it enters the US via undersea cables crossing the Atlantic Ocean.Mr Bowden, who now works as an independent advocate for privacy rights and co-authored a report for the European Parliament warning of the threat to clouds posed by FISA, criticised the UK Information Commissioner\u2019s Office for giving free rein to the US authorities.The body which polices data protection laws in the UK effectively ruled that companies were right to pass information over to foreign government requests as the disclosure was made \u201cin accordance with a legal requirement\u201d, such as FISA.Mr Bowden said: \u201cEvery time we make a bridge of trust, or commit an indiscretion, using a social network or webmail, think how a foreign country could use that information for its own purposes to influence policy and politics. Drafts of documents prepared online, who is in contact with each other, all of this can be captured and analysed using data-mining algorithms much more advanced than those offered by public search engines.\u201dHis report, which is being considered by the EU in a review of its electronic privacy directive, cautioned that the threat of \u201cheavy-calibre mass-surveillance fire-power aimed at the cloud\u201d was greater than that posed by cyber-crime.Gordon Nardell QC, a British barrister who specialises in data protection, said he was \u201cshocked\u201d by the powers outlined in the highly-controversial amendments to FISA.He said: \u201cWhat\u2019s different about this is that it\u2019s a power in the US authorities to insist on real-time collection of information by any data processer within US jurisdiction. The US authorities basically grab everything that is going in and out.\u201dSophie in \u2018t Veld, a Dutch MEP who serves as vice chair of the European Parliament\u2019s civil liberties committee, warned that European authorities must act as soon as possible.Speaking to , she said:\u201cLet\u2019s turn this around and imagine this is not the United States having unlimited access to our data but the government of Mr Putin or the Chinese government \u2013 would we still wonder if it\u2019s an urgent issue? Nobody would ask that question.\u201dThe IndependentEric King of pressure group Privacy International, said: \u201cAllowing mass surveillance, unwarranted and unaccountable, is terrifying.\u201dIsabella Sankey, Director of Policy for Liberty, said: \u201cUS surveillance ambitions know no bounds. The chilling US Foreign Intelligence Service Act treats all non-US citizens as enemy suspects.\u201dLast night a Google spokesperson said: \u201cIt is possible for the US government (and European governments) to access certain types of data via their law enforcement agencies. We think this kind of access to data merits serious discussion and more transparency.\u201dAmazon and Apple were yet to comment last night.\u00a0","A senior British rabbi has been filmed telling an alleged victim of child sexual abuse not to go to the police.Rabbi Ephraim Padwa, who is leader of the UK\u2019s Strictly Orthodox Jewish community, told the alleged victim that it was \u201cmesira\u201d, or forbidden, to report a suspected Jewish sex offender to a non-Jewish authority.His advice, which was secretly recorded as part of a\u00a0 Channel 4\u2019s Dispatches investigation to be shown tonight, will reignite the controversy about the cover-up of child sex abuse by religious groups following global scandals surrounding the Roman Catholic churchStrictly Orthodox Jewish people, known as Charedi, number 40,000 people, around a sixth of the Jewish population in Britain.Rabbi Padwa, who is head of the Union of Orthodox Hebrew Congregations in Stamford Hill, north\u00a0 London, was recorded by a former member of the tight-knit community using a hidden camera.The footage shows the alleged victim telling Rabbi Padwa about someone \u201cwho sexually abused me when I was younger, when I was a child and I\u2019m looking for your advice, to be honest, what to do\u2026Would do you think maybe, is it a good idea to speak to the police about it?\u201d.\u00a0\u201cOh no,\u201d Padwa answers, explaining that doing so would breach Rabbinic Law.\u00a0 The alleged victim says that child sex abuse is a \u201cvery serious issue\u201d, but is told not tell the police. Rabbi Padwa adds: \u201cMen Tur Nisht,\u201d which is Yiddish for \u201cpeople must not tell tales.\u201d He continues: \u201cThe police is not the solution.\u201dAnother Charedi Rabbi claims later in the program that Rabbi Ephraim Padwa recently forbade a father who had told the police that his son had been sexually abused from pursuing the case.\u00a0The man taped speaking to Rabbi Padwa agreed to help investigate possible sex abuse cover-ups after claiming he was abused as a child by a fellow Charedi, Channel 4 claims.Rabbi Padwa\u2019s organisation, the UOHC, sent Channel 4 a letter responding to the allegations stating: \u201cThe Jewish Community considers the safety and protection of our children as paramount.\u201dLast night it released another statement outlining its procedures for dealing with child sex abuse complaints. It said: \u201cThe Orthodox Hebrew Congregations have a special Committee to deal with incidences of attacks of this kind on the children of our congregations. The members of the Committee consist of rabbis, educators and members of the community, among whom there are those who have been trained in the right way to tackle this.It added: \u201cThe Committee which will deal with it [sex abuse complaints] according to the advice of the Rabbinical Court and according to the law of the land.\u201dBritain\u2019s Hidden Child Abuse - Channel 4 Dispatches Special - Wednesday 30th January at 10.30pm","Four men were arrested today on suspicion of trafficking hundreds of women from Hungary and other European Union countries into Britain to work as prostitutes.It is believed many of the alleged victims of what police described as a sophisticated and high-value scheme run by a suspected international criminal network were lured to the UK after answering adverts in newspapers and employment websites for jobs as receptionists.Up to 400 flights were arranged for the women, a number of whom were raped and physically abused when they were forced into sex work. Most of the victims were from Hungary.Officers from the Metropolitan Police\u2019s Trafficking and Prostitution Unit (TPU) investigating the sexual exploitation of foreign nationals raided seven addresses in London and Luton including a business premises in Camden, north London, which was operating as an agency.Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland of the TPU said: \"These arrests follow a six-month investigation. We believe that many women have been brought into the country having been told they will be given jobs, only to then be forced to work as prostitutes, with some being physically abused and raped in the process.\u201cOur main concern is for the victims. Today we have identified women we think have been sexually exploited, and they have all been offered care. The next stage will be to try to identify other victims, not just in the UK but those who have returned to Hungary, so they can be offered the same support.\u201dTwo of the addresses in Enfield are believed to have been operating as brothels, police said. Three of the men arrested were Hungarian nationals whilst one was a 33-year-old British man who was arrested in Barnet, North London. Among the premises visited in the co-ordinated early morning raids was one at a luxury development in London\u2019s Docklands.A number of potential victims were found at the addresses according to police, whilst computers, cash, travel documents and account registers were all seized. The men are being questioned at a police station in north west London.Detectives are now working with colleagues in Hungary and the Czech Republic to identify further victims. So far 15 women have come forward \u00a0although police believe the final number could be far higher.It is believed that the organisers of the network had been generating considerable revenue from their activities with people employed to work at each stage of the process from recruiting the women in Hungary to meeting them at UK airports as well as at the premises where they were required to meet male clients in return for cash.The women, a number of whom were answering adverts for escort agencies, were all able to travel on the national passports or using identity cards. Police have investigated a number of individual cases involving trafficking from Hungary but this is the first on such a large scale.","A motorist has appeared in court accused of killing a couple who were knocked off their tandem bike in an alleged hit-and-run.Nicholas Lovell, 38, was remanded in custody at North Avon Magistrates' Court in Yate, south Gloucestershire, charged with two counts of causing death by dangerous driving.Lovell, of West Street in Oldland Common, south Gloucestershire, is also charged with driving while disqualified, driving without insurance and failing to stop after a road accident.Husband and wife Ross and Clare Simons died in a crash while cycling on Sunday evening in Hanham, near Bristol.Lovell spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth.He is due to appear over videolink at Bristol Crown Court for a preliminary hearing on February 21.Bespectacled Lovell, wearing a navy blue T-shirt, was accompanied by one female dock officer during the five-minute hearing.He did not react as the clerk read out the charges against him, which are alleged to have taken place on January 27.Kathryn Jones, prosecuting, told the court: \"The incident on the 27th resulted unfortunately in the fatalities of the two individuals that have been named.\"There is no bail application. The crown seeks remand in custody.\"No further details of the prosecution case against Lovell were given in court.Chairwoman of the bench Catherine Gunnery told Lovell: \"You have heard what has been said. You are going to go to the Crown Court for a preliminary hearing on 21st February. You are remanded in custody until that date.\"The couple died less than 24 hours after they celebrated the news that they could undergo fertility treatment to start a family.Mr Simons, 34, and his 30-year-old wife - described by friends as \"two peas in a pod\" - died when their bicycle was in collision with a Citroen Picasso car.Their families described them as \"very special\" and said they had \"no words\" to describe their loss.Dozens of floral tributes have been left at the scene of the crash in memory of Mr and Mrs Simons.Avon and Somerset Police have referred the matter to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.A 35-year-old woman arrested in connection with the collision remains on police bail.PA","Urgent court action is being brought against the Government today over funding for legal representation for the British grandmother sentenced to death in Indonesia for drug smuggling.The law firm involved in the case says the High Court challenge is against a decision not to arrange \"an adequate lawyer\" for Lindsay Sandiford, 56, from Cheltenham, Gloucestershire.Sandiford, originally from Redcar, Teesside, was given the death penalty by a court in Bali last week for taking 10.6lb (4.8kg) of cocaine onto the island.The sentence would see her shot by a firing squad.She was accused by the court of damaging the image of Bali and received the sentence despite prosecutors only asking for a 15-year jail term.Sandiford, who is said to have no money, has notified Indonesian officials that she intends to appeal against the ruling.Law firm Leigh Day, which is working with the charity Reprieve - which seeks to protect the interests of prisoners worldwide - said it would cost around \u00a32,500 to pay for an adequate lawyer to take on her case.Leigh Day is seeking a judicial review of the Government's decision not to pay.Sandiford had not been properly represented since her arrest at Bali airport in May last year, when customs officers found the drugs sewn into the lining of her suitcase, it said.Richard Stein, partner in the human rights team at the firm, said: \"The Government has a duty to ensure that the human rights of British citizens are protected and that those sentenced to death, or suspected of or charged with a crime for which capital punishment may be imposed, have adequate legal assistance at all stages of the proceedings.\"This judicial review will challenge the Government's refusal to fund the \u00a32,500 in expenses it would cost for a qualified Indonesian lawyer to represent Lindsay in her appeal against execution by firing squad which will take place on the beach in Bali if the Government do not act.\"The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has said that the Government does not fund legal representation for British nationals abroad, but Sandiford's case was being raised through diplomatic channels.A spokesman said: \"We strongly object to the death penalty and continue to provide consular assistance to Lindsay and her family during this difficult time.\"Today's application will be heard by Mrs Justice Gloster and Mrs Justice Nicola Davies.PA","The New York Times has claimed that it was victim of repeated attacks on its computer systems by Chinese hackers after it began an investigation into the business dealings of the Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.The paper said the hacking attacks, which involved infiltrating its computers and obtaining the passwords of its reporters and other staff, coincided with its October investigation into Mr Wen having accumulated a fortune of several billion dollars through his business dealings.The publisher brought in computer security experts which he said had uncovered hacking methods previously associated with the Chinese military. Among the individuals targeted was the Shanghai bureau chief David Barboza, who had written stories about Mr Wen\u2019s relatives, and Jim Yardley, the paper\u2019s former Beijing bureau chief, who had moved to a new post in India.New York TimesThe paper claimed that its responses to the hacking had been successful. \u201cAfter surreptitiously tracking the intruders to study their movements and help erect better defences to block them, the and computer experts have expelled the attackers and kept them from breaking back in,\u201d it said in a report.TimesThe hacking attack represents an early challenge for the former BBC Director General Mark Thompson, who took up his new role as chief executive and president of the in November.New York TimesMandiant, a security firm hired by the publisher, found that the hackers had tried to disguise their origins by first targeting American university computers and directing their attacks on the newspaper from there. Chinese hackers had used a similar tactic of infiltrating university computers in previous attacks on the US military.Malicious software (malware) was used to penetrate the system and gain access to the password of 53 employees. The paper said that it had found no evidence that the hackers had been attempting to access information other than that relating to its investigation into Mr Wen and it also claimed that sources on that project had not been compromised by the security breach.New York TimesJim Abramson, executive editor of the , said: \u201cComputer security experts found no evidence that sensitive e-mails or files from the reporting of our articles about the Wen family were accessed, downloaded or copied.\u201dNew York TimesThe hackers are suspected of using a spear-phishing attack, in which targeted employees are sent emails containing a malicious link or attachment. By clicking on the e-mail, the employee immediately introduces a remote access tool (known as a RAT) onto their computer allowing every keystroke \u2013 and sometimes recording from the computer\u2019s microphones and webcams - to be relayed to the attacker. Michael Higgins. Chief security officer at the , said: \u201cAttackers no longer go after our firewall. They go after individuals. They send a malicious piece of code to your e-mail account and you\u2019re opening it and letting them in.\u201dNew York Times","A senior counter-terrorism detective who is the first person to be convicted under the fresh investigations into corruption and phone hacking has been jailed for 15 months.Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn was sentenced at the Old Bailey today for misconduct in public office for offering to sell information to the News of the World (NotW).Mr Justice Fulford told her it was \"a corrupt attempt to make money out of sensitive and potentially very damaging information\".Casburn, 53, is currently in the process of adopting a child, and the judge said had that not been the case he would have sentenced her to three years.He said her offence could not be described as whistle-blowing, and went on: \"If the News of the World had accepted her offer, it's clear, in my view, that Ms Casburn would have taken the money and, as a result, she posed a significant threat to the integrity of this important police investigation.\"The judge went on: \"Activity of this kind is deeply damaging to the administration of criminal justice in this country. It corrodes the public's faith in the police force, it can lead to the acquittal or the failure by the authorities to prosecute individuals who have committed offences whether they are serious or otherwise.\"We are entitled to expect the very highest standards of probity from our police officers, particularly those at a senior level.\"It is, in my judgment, a very serious matter indeed when men or women who have all the benefits, privileges and responsibilities of public office use their position for corrupt purposes.\"He said he was particularly concerned about Casburn's child, and admitted that her absence while she is in prison could be damaging.But he said that, had she not been arrested, the detective would have returned to work by now, and therefore the child would be cared for by others anyway.Casburn, from Hatfield Peverel in Essex, called the NotW news desk on September 11 2010, and spoke to journalist Tim Wood about the fresh investigation into phone hacking.She claimed she contacted the tabloid because she was concerned about counter-terror resources being wasted on the phone-hacking inquiry, which her colleagues saw as \"a bit of a jolly\".The detective denied asking for money, but Mr Wood had made a note that she \"wanted to sell inside information\".Today Mr Justice Fulford said: \"It seems to me Mr Wood was a reliable, honest and disinterested witness.\"He took time and trouble during the defendant's call to find out exactly what Miss Casburn was saying, questioning the defendant in detail on her account in order to make an accurate note for his superiors at the News of the World which he wrote up in detail immediately afterwards.\"He had absolutely no reason to lie and every cause to be cautious given the risk that the newspaper was to be the victim of a sting, as he suspected.\"During her trial at Southwark Crown Court last month, Casburn likened the male-dominated counter-terrorism unit to the TV series Life On Mars.She was not given a desk for several months, despite more junior colleagues having them, jurors were told.But the judge rejected this as an explanation for her behaviour.He said: \"It seems to me this is a straightforward but troubling case of corruption.\"I decline to accept that she had significant difficulties working with her male colleagues in the senior ranks of the counter-terrorism unit, which in part she said led her to act as she did.\"The most that could be said is that she was a relative newcomer to this area of police work. As a result she may have felt something of an outsider.\"But he said this \"could not begin to explain the actions of a detective chief inspector who offers to the very newspaper which is the subject of a sensitive and confidential investigation by other officers to sell details of the progress of the inquiry and the strategy that officers were intending to follow\".\u00a0PA","A senior counter-terrorism detective who is the first person to be convicted under the fresh investigations into corruption and phone hacking has been jailed for 15 months.Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn was sentenced at the Old Bailey today for misconduct in public office for offering to sell information to the News of the World (NotW).Mr Justice Fulford told her it was \"a corrupt attempt to make money out of sensitive and potentially very damaging information\".Casburn, 53, is currently in the process of adopting a child, and the judge said had that not been the case he would have sentenced her to three years.He said her offence could not be described as whistle-blowing, and went on: \"If the News of the World had accepted her offer, it's clear, in my view, that Ms Casburn would have taken the money and, as a result, she posed a significant threat to the integrity of this important police investigation.\"The judge went on: \"Activity of this kind is deeply damaging to the administration of criminal justice in this country. It corrodes the public's faith in the police force, it can lead to the acquittal or the failure by the authorities to prosecute individuals who have committed offences whether they are serious or otherwise.\"We are entitled to expect the very highest standards of probity from our police officers, particularly those at a senior level.\"It is, in my judgment, a very serious matter indeed when men or women who have all the benefits, privileges and responsibilities of public office use their position for corrupt purposes.\"He said he was particularly concerned about Casburn's child, and admitted that her absence while she is in prison could be damaging.But he said that, had she not been arrested, the detective would have returned to work by now, and therefore the child would be cared for by others anyway.Casburn, from Hatfield Peverel in Essex, called the NotW news desk on September 11 2010, and spoke to journalist Tim Wood about the fresh investigation into phone hacking.She claimed she contacted the tabloid because she was concerned about counter-terror resources being wasted on the phone-hacking inquiry, which her colleagues saw as \"a bit of a jolly\".The detective denied asking for money, but Mr Wood had made a note that she \"wanted to sell inside information\".Today Mr Justice Fulford said: \"It seems to me Mr Wood was a reliable, honest and disinterested witness.\"He took time and trouble during the defendant's call to find out exactly what Miss Casburn was saying, questioning the defendant in detail on her account in order to make an accurate note for his superiors at the News of the World which he wrote up in detail immediately afterwards.\"He had absolutely no reason to lie and every cause to be cautious given the risk that the newspaper was to be the victim of a sting, as he suspected.\"During her trial at Southwark Crown Court last month, Casburn likened the male-dominated counter-terrorism unit to the TV series Life On Mars.She was not given a desk for several months, despite more junior colleagues having them, jurors were told.But the judge rejected this as an explanation for her behaviour.He said: \"It seems to me this is a straightforward but troubling case of corruption.\"I decline to accept that she had significant difficulties working with her male colleagues in the senior ranks of the counter-terrorism unit, which in part she said led her to act as she did.\"The most that could be said is that she was a relative newcomer to this area of police work. As a result she may have felt something of an outsider.\"But he said this \"could not begin to explain the actions of a detective chief inspector who offers to the very newspaper which is the subject of a sensitive and confidential investigation by other officers to sell details of the progress of the inquiry and the strategy that officers were intending to follow\".\u00a0PA","A senior counter-terrorism detective who is the first person to be convicted under the fresh investigations into corruption and phone hacking has been jailed for 15 months.Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn was sentenced at the Old Bailey today for misconduct in public office for offering to sell information to the News of the World (NotW).Mr Justice Fulford told her it was \"a corrupt attempt to make money out of sensitive and potentially very damaging information\".Casburn, 53, is currently in the process of adopting a child, and the judge said had that not been the case he would have sentenced her to three years.He said her offence could not be described as whistle-blowing, and went on: \"If the News of the World had accepted her offer, it's clear, in my view, that Ms Casburn would have taken the money and, as a result, she posed a significant threat to the integrity of this important police investigation.\"The judge went on: \"Activity of this kind is deeply damaging to the administration of criminal justice in this country. It corrodes the public's faith in the police force, it can lead to the acquittal or the failure by the authorities to prosecute individuals who have committed offences whether they are serious or otherwise.\"We are entitled to expect the very highest standards of probity from our police officers, particularly those at a senior level.\"It is, in my judgment, a very serious matter indeed when men or women who have all the benefits, privileges and responsibilities of public office use their position for corrupt purposes.\"He said he was particularly concerned about Casburn's child, and admitted that her absence while she is in prison could be damaging.But he said that, had she not been arrested, the detective would have returned to work by now, and therefore the child would be cared for by others anyway.Casburn, from Hatfield Peverel in Essex, called the NotW news desk on September 11 2010, and spoke to journalist Tim Wood about the fresh investigation into phone hacking.She claimed she contacted the tabloid because she was concerned about counter-terror resources being wasted on the phone-hacking inquiry, which her colleagues saw as \"a bit of a jolly\".The detective denied asking for money, but Mr Wood had made a note that she \"wanted to sell inside information\".Today Mr Justice Fulford said: \"It seems to me Mr Wood was a reliable, honest and disinterested witness.\"He took time and trouble during the defendant's call to find out exactly what Miss Casburn was saying, questioning the defendant in detail on her account in order to make an accurate note for his superiors at the News of the World which he wrote up in detail immediately afterwards.\"He had absolutely no reason to lie and every cause to be cautious given the risk that the newspaper was to be the victim of a sting, as he suspected.\"During her trial at Southwark Crown Court last month, Casburn likened the male-dominated counter-terrorism unit to the TV series Life On Mars.She was not given a desk for several months, despite more junior colleagues having them, jurors were told.But the judge rejected this as an explanation for her behaviour.He said: \"It seems to me this is a straightforward but troubling case of corruption.\"I decline to accept that she had significant difficulties working with her male colleagues in the senior ranks of the counter-terrorism unit, which in part she said led her to act as she did.\"The most that could be said is that she was a relative newcomer to this area of police work. As a result she may have felt something of an outsider.\"But he said this \"could not begin to explain the actions of a detective chief inspector who offers to the very newspaper which is the subject of a sensitive and confidential investigation by other officers to sell details of the progress of the inquiry and the strategy that officers were intending to follow\".\u00a0PA","The existing system to root out police wrongdoing is being undermined by poor-quality investigations and lacks the powers and resources to get to the bottom of serious cases of corruption and misconduct, according to a damning report published today.The body set up to investigate police misconduct since 2004, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), is not yet capable of being the powerful watchdog it should be, according to a committee of MPs.While a series of incidents have tested the public\u2019s confidence in police \u2013 including the death of Ian Tomlinson in 2009, the Hillsborough tragedy cover-up and the continuing probe into conspiracy claims against former Government chief whip Andrew Mitchell \u2013 the report found that the IPCC too often made public mistrust of police worse, not better.IPCC inquiries into alleged police wrongdoing start too late and take too long, according to the Home Affairs Select Committee. The finding came as the IPCC conducts an inquiry into the Hillsborough tragedy \u2013 its biggest ever \u2013 which will involve analysing the roles of some 2,000 people.The IPCC, which has seen its budget cut by 13 per cent over four years, is \u201cwoefully underequipped and hamstrung\u201d in achieving its objectives, with less funding than the professional standards department of the Metropolitan Police. The report said the law should be changed so that officers are routinely questioned after a death involving police.\u201cIt has neither the powers nor the resources that it needs to get to the truth when the integrity of the police is in doubt,\u201d the report said.The inquiry highlighted claims that the IPCC failed to locate evidence and uncritically accepted police explanations for missing evidence, lacked the skills and experience of qualified lawyers and prosecutors, and was too slow in responding to complaints and conducting investigations.The IPCC has been criticised by campaigners including Doreen Lawrence, the mother of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence, who said she had \u201cno confidence whatsoever\u201d in it. The organisation has faced calls for it to be scrapped, but the MPs said it should instead be given more money and greater powers to investigate other agencies.Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest which works with families of those who have died in custody, said: \u201cThe IPCC systematically fails to hold the police to account for wrongdoing.\u201dThe MPs extended their damning indictment of the IPCC\u2019s abilities to that of police forces\u2019 own disciplinary units. When the IPCC investigated appeals from the public into the way that forces had handled their complaints, it found that police had been wrong in 31 per cent of cases.The Police Federation \u2013 which represent officers up to the rank of inspector \u2013 told the inquiry that the IPCC failed to intervene in cases where professional standards departments had \u201callegedly conducted a poor, biased or even corrupt investigation\u201d.\u201cA strong watchdog is vital to get to the truth but the IPCC leaves the public frustrated and faithless,\u201d said committee chairman Keith Vaz.Dame Anne Owers, chairwoman of the IPCC, said: \u201cThis report recognises that we do not yet have the resources or powers to do all that the public rightly expects and needs from us.\u201dThe Home Office said it would shortly announced plans to improve public trust in the police. \u201cImproving police professionalism and integrity are at the cornerstone of the sweeping reforms we are making,\u201d it said.","Tens of thousands of Twitter users, including the BBC's technology correspondent, have had their accounts hacked.In a blog post, staff at the micro-blogging website said that earlier this week it interrupted attempts to access user data, and that attackers stole 250,000 users' login names, email addresses and encrypted passwords.It shut down one attack moments after it was detected.Twitter reset the compromised passwords and sent emails informing affected users.One of those users was Rory Cellan-Jones, a journalist who covers technology for the BBC.The attack follows other high-profile hacking attacks, inlcluding China-based hackers' inflitrating computer systems at The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, and Anonymous's hijack of the US Sentencing Commission's website.Twitter said in its blog that the attack \"was not the work of amateurs, and we do not believe it was an isolated incident\".\"The attackers were extremely sophisticated, and we believe other companies and organisations have also been recently similarly attacked.\"For that reason we felt that it was important to publicise this attack while we still gather information, and we are helping government and federal law enforcement in their effort to find and prosecute these attackers to make the internet safer for all users.\"One expert said that the Twitter hack probably happened after an employee's home or work computer was compromised through vulnerabilities in Java, a commonly used computing language whose weaknesses have been well publicized.Ashkan Soltani, an independent privacy and security researcher, told Associated Press such a move would give attackers \"a toehold\" in Twitter's internal network, potentially allowing them either to sniff out user information as it traveled across the company's system or break into specific areas, such as the authentication servers that process users' passwords.He said that the relatively small number of users affected suggested either that attackers were not on the network long or that they were only able to compromise a subset of the company's servers.Bob Lord, Twitter's director of security, said: \"We encourage all users to take this opportunity to ensure that they are following good password hygiene, on Twitter and elsewhere on the internet.\"Make sure you use a strong password \u2013 at least 10 (but more is better) characters and a mixture of upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols.\"","Abusive tweeters who quickly delete their offensive remarks from the micro-blogging site should escape the courts, the Director of Public Prosecutions said today.Keir Starmer said it was \u201crelevant\u201d for police to take into account how long a tweet had been posted before deciding whether the offender should be prosecuted.\u201cThere\u2019s a lot of stuff out there that is highly offensive... that is quite often taken down pretty quickly and the view is that those sort of remarks don\u2019t necessarily need to be prosecuted,\u201d he told Sky\u2019s Dermot Murnaghan.Tweets which were libellous, broke court orders or were threatening would face prosecution regardless, he added: \u201cThis is not a get-out-of-jail card.\u201dFigures released in December revealed crimes involving Facebook and Twitter have increased by 780 per cent in the past four years.","Video: Grant Shepherd / YouTubeA man brandishing knives was Tasered outside Buckingham Palace today after disrupting the Changing of the Guard ceremony.The man, believed to be in his 50s, broke through police cordons and held one knife to his neck and attempted to slash at officers with a six-inch blade while shouting.He was arrested on suspicion of affray after being temporarily paralysed by the electrical charge from a police Taser gun.Kevin Burrows, an onlooker, said: \u201cA man just started running towards the palace, I just saw him running towards the front gate.\u201cI thought, \u2018Oh my God, I can\u2019t believe it\u2019. There must have been about 15 police officers on foot who surrounded him once he\u2019d been Tasered. The police saw him really quickly and were obviously cautious. They were shouting at everybody to get back. There were police on horses. I saw the shot fired \u2013 the police officer was about three metres from him.\u201cIt took a couple of seconds for him to fall to the ground. He was carried off in a police van.\u201dPolice told the hundreds of tourists gathered for the midday ceremony that the man \u201ctried to make an exhibition of himself\u201d and that there were \u201cmental health issues\u201d.The Queen and Prince Philip were at Sandringham at the time.A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said the man was not making threats to the public. He is in custody at a central London police station.For confidential support call the in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branchSamaritans","Video: Grant Shepherd / YouTubeA man brandishing knives was Tasered outside Buckingham Palace today after disrupting the Changing of the Guard ceremony.The man, believed to be in his 50s, broke through police cordons and held one knife to his neck and attempted to slash at officers with a six-inch blade while shouting.He was arrested on suspicion of affray after being temporarily paralysed by the electrical charge from a police Taser gun.Kevin Burrows, an onlooker, said: \u201cA man just started running towards the palace, I just saw him running towards the front gate.\u201cI thought, \u2018Oh my God, I can\u2019t believe it\u2019. There must have been about 15 police officers on foot who surrounded him once he\u2019d been Tasered. The police saw him really quickly and were obviously cautious. They were shouting at everybody to get back. There were police on horses. I saw the shot fired \u2013 the police officer was about three metres from him.\u201cIt took a couple of seconds for him to fall to the ground. He was carried off in a police van.\u201dPolice told the hundreds of tourists gathered for the midday ceremony that the man \u201ctried to make an exhibition of himself\u201d and that there were \u201cmental health issues\u201d.The Queen and Prince Philip were at Sandringham at the time.A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said the man was not making threats to the public. He is in custody at a central London police station.For confidential support call the in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branchSamaritans","The director of public prosecutions Keir Starmer has said swiftly deleting abusive tweets may save offenders from being brought before court.Starmer, who is the country's leading prosecutor, said it was \"relevant\" for police to consider whether an offending tweet had been deleted or not.Speaking on Sky's Dermot Murnaghan programme, he said he was holding a three-month consultation about the plan.Libellous tweets, or messages which broke court orders or were threatening, would still face prosecution regardless, he added.Mr Starmer said: \"There's a lot of stuff out there that is highly offensive that is put out on a spontaneous basis that is quite often taken down pretty quickly and the view is that those sort of remarks don't necessarily need to be prosecuted.\"\u00a0He added: \"I think that if there are too many investigations and too many cases coming to court then that can have a chilling effect for free speech.\"This is about trying to get the balance right, making sure time and resources are spent on cases that really do need to go to court, and not spent on cases which people might think really would be better dealt with by a swift apology and removal of the offending tweet.\"This is not a get-out-of-jail card but it is highly relevant. Stuff does go up on a Friday and Saturday night and come down the next morning.\"Now if that is the case a lot people will say that shouldn't have happened, the person has accepted it, but really you don't need a criminal prosecution. It is a relevant factor.\"But he said Twitter was not a place where people could \"go and say what they like\" without thinking of the circumstances.Figures released in December revealed crimes involving Facebook and Twitter have increased by 780% in the last four years, with around 650 people charged in 2012 for offences on social media sites.Offences ranged from harassment, to stalking and grooming, as well as racial abuse, according to figures compiled by police forces.But Mr Starmer hopes his guidelines will reduce the number of cases where jokes have been misplaced or someone has not obviously committed a crime going before the courts.His comments follow a number of high-profile investigations which have later been over-turned.The May 2010 conviction of Paul Chambers for joking on Twitter about blowing up Robin Hood Airport in South Yorkshire is a well-known case.His conviction for sending a \"menacing\" tweet drew widespread condemnation and was eventually quashed on appeal in July."]},{"x":0.197183000052908,"y":0.373566233501794,"no_docs":19,"words":[{"prob":1.58029931800848e-05,"word":"people"},{"prob":1.58029931800848e-05,"word":"children"},{"prob":3.64004858637678e-05,"word":"cent"},{"prob":5.44446629910298e-05,"word":"report"},{"prob":0.0063807743176294,"word":"year"},{"prob":0.000942542898964456,"word":"areas"},{"prob":3.5430232667606e-05,"word":"quality"}],"docs":["Government plans to help parents struggling with rising child care costs are on the \u201cwrong track\u201d because they could help better off families most, a think tank warns today.The Resolution Foundation said the Chancellor George Osborne\u2019s proposal to provide tax relief for nurseries and childminders would subsidise well-off at the expense of those on lower and middle incomes.Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, is arguing for more \u201cfree\u201d state-funded hours of child care for lower earners as the Coalition parties thrash out a new package due to be announced in the next few weeks.Gavin Kelly, the foundation\u2019s chief executive, said: \u201cIt\u2019s not a great surprise that the Coalition isn\u2019t finding it easy to agree its new policy. It\u2019s trying to resolve contradictory political pressures \u2013 from using some form of tax relief to compensate higher income families for their axed child benefit, to ensuring that it will be worthwhile for low income families relying on\u00a0 Universal Credit (phased in from this year) to\u00a0 take on more hours of work, to relieving the burden on middle income families who don\u2019t qualify for tax credit support.\u00a0 Achieving all of these objectives with limited resources at the same time as\u00a0 simplifying the current system of childcare support, as the government says it wants to, is a very tall order.\u00a0 There is a real risk they go down the wrong track - prioritising a tax break that gives the most to the affluent.\u201dThe think tank, which hosts a conference on child care today, found that the existing scheme under which employer vouchers provide tax relief gives almost half the benefit to households with an income of more than \u00a370,000.Anand Shukla, chief executive of the Daycare Trust, said: \u201cIt is key that any additional financial support helps those on low and modest incomes where the financial pressures are the greatest. Rather than a tax break which threatens to be complicated and onerous, we strongly advocate targeting any extra resources on extending the free entitlement provision which is hugely popular with parents.\u201d","Italian scientists say they have located the part of the brain that can turn a latin lover into an insanely jealous person or even a stalker.Researchers at the University of Pisa say the discovery raised the possibility of a test to spot potential aggressors before they begin harassing their victims.The brain area they have identified is the frontal cortex, which is responsible for learning but also controls emotions such as jealousy.And when this key part of the brain goes out of kilter, sufferers can turn obsessive, begin stalking, and even kill.\"If jealousy is a completely natural feeling, we're looking at the biochemical imbalance that transforms this feeling into a dangerous obsession,\" said researcher Donatella Marazziti. \"In its extreme forms... it provokes terrifying behaviour such as stalking, or drives people to suicide or murder.\"The disorder is also known as Othello Syndrome, after the character in Shakespeare's play who murders his wife after wrongly believing she has been unfaithful.Pathological obsession and jealousy has special resonance in Italy, after a recent spate of domestic violence and murders.The scientists pinpointed the brain area by studying patients with schizophrenia, alcoholism and Parkinson's disease, whose symptoms commonly include jealousy.The precise area is known as the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which is found just above the forehead, according to the findings, which appear in the journal CNS Spectrums.","Beyond the hope, marketing and the rational realisation that it almost certainly won\u2019t be you, lotteries are about psychology and cold statistics with the power to change your life. Forty-nine numbers. You choose six. You have a one in 13,983,816 chance of hitting the jackpot.It sounds simple, but when you delve beneath the central improbability of matching all six numbers, lotteries and their variants are fiendishly complex games that have taxed the minds of statisticians, psychologists, and those who seek to game the system.Now, by doubling another key figure \u2013 the cost of a ticket \u2013 the dream dealers at Camelot have changed the game for good. Your chances of winning big will always be one in 14 million, but, below the jackpot, where does the new lottery leave those willing to pay two pounds for a shot at riches? And, ultimately, who wins?David Spiegelhalter is a statistician and the Winton Professor of the Public Understanding of Risk at the University of Cambridge. He knows about numbers, and spent an hour yesterday crunching the tables drawn up for the new lottery.First, what\u2019s new? From next autumn, the estimated average jackpot rises from \u00a34.1m to \u00a35m on Saturday and from \u00a32.2m to \u00a32.5m on Wednesday. Rewards for matching three numbers will go up from \u00a310 to \u00a325. Four numbers? You\u2019ll get \u00a3100 rather than \u00a360. Match five and winnings drop from \u00a31,500 to \u00a31,000, and from \u00a3100,000 to \u00a350,000 if you also get the bonus ball. New raffle numbers printed on all tickets, meanwhile, mean at least 50 players will win \u00a320,000.\u201cSay you buy two tickets a week, for about \u00a3100 a year,\u201d Spiegelhalter says. \u201cCurrently on average you\u2019ll win \u00a346 a year. You have 87 per cent chance of winning something, while one in 8 people will win nothing.\u201dAfter the change, he adds, \u201cif you spend the same amount perhaps by cutting out your Wednesday ticket, one in three people would win nothing, up from one in eight. But now 63 per cent of people will win something, down from 87 per cent, but they will win at least \u00a325.\u201dIn summary, unless you spend more, you\u2019re more likely to win nothing. But if you do win something, it\u2019s likely to be more, thanks also to the new raffle, which Spiegelhalter says increases the chance of winning significant amounts below jackpot level. \u201cIf it wasn\u2019t for the raffle the changes would be ludicrous,\u201d he adds.If statistics govern your chances of winning (or losing), psychology explains why people play a game with such rotten odds. In a recent article in Pyschology Today, Dr Stephen Goldbart, author of Affluence Intelligence, said: \u201cJumping on the bandwagon is an age-old motivator of psychological behaviour,\u201d adding: \u201cWhen we have been afflicted by what we have called the \u2018financial anxiety epidemic\u2019 in which we feel tired, uncertain of what to do, and disempowered, we may seek a magic pill to make us feel better.\u201cIn reality, buying a lottery ticket is gambling. But in fantasy, it lets you believe in magic: that you will be the one who spent a little and got a lot; that you will defy the extraordinary odds against winning.\u201dLottery ticket sales have remained strong despite the recession, rising 35 per cent since the games were rebranded 10 years ago. Around 60 per cent of adults in the UK play regularly, spending more than \u00a36bn a year. Critics accuse the National Lottery of effectively taxing poor people seeking that \u201cmagic pill\u201d.A 2008 study in the US showed the poorest players spend almost 10 per cent of their disposable income on tickets.Camelot will be aware that many regular players will be reluctant to \u201cgive up\u201d their tickets, particularly if they play with the same numbers. \u201cThey\u2019re exploiting your potential regret if your miss out,\u201d Spiegelhalter says. \u201cPeople are very fearful of regret.\u201dNonetheless, studies suggest that Camelot is taking a big risk with its price rise. In 2008, researchers at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania set out to determine why, beyond hope, people with less were willing to spend more on tickets. In the study, published in the Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, some participants were given $1 at a time and asked if they wanted to spend each on a lottery ticket. People in a second group got $5 and were asked how many tickets they wanted to buy. Members of a third group were given $5 and told they could spend all of it on tickets or buy none.People in the second group bought half the number of tickets as those given a dollar, while 87 per cent of those in the all-or-nothing group bought nothing. The findings agreed with what\u2019s known as the \u201cpeanuts effect\u201d.\u201cThere are money amounts that are small enough that people almost ignore them,\u201d Loewenstein told CNN last November, when the US Powerball jackpot had risen above $550m (\u00a3345m). \u201cIt almost doesn\u2019t feel real. The lottery and penny slots are kind of the sweet spot of risk taking.\u201dGeorge Orwell gave the bleakest depiction of a national lottery. In 1984, one such game served the dual purposes of raising funds for wars and distracting people from their predicaments (if not the novel\u2019s main protagonist, Winston Smith). \u201cIt was their delight, their folly, their anodyne, their intellectual stimulant... There was a whole tribe of men who made their living simply by selling systems, forecasts, and lucky amulets,\u201d he wrote.\u201cWinston had nothing to do with the Lottery, which was managed by the Ministry of Plenty, but he was aware that the prizes were largely imaginary. Only small sums were actually paid out, the winners of the big prizes being non-existent persons.\u201dReal prizes paid to real people, however few, have inspired enterprising number crunchers to exploit the system elsewhere. Students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology discovered that by bulk-buying tickets for the state lottery, a quirk in the way prizes were distributed when nobody hit the jackpot guaranteed them a return of up to 20 per cent if they bought up to \u00a3400,000-worth of tickets.Their scam became so sophisticated that several students stopped their studies to attract investors. They earned more than \u00a35m by 2005. Moreover, they played with the knowledge of the Massachusetts Lottery, which only closed the loophole last year (no action was taken against the students).In Ireland in the early 1990s, players picked six numbers from 36. Tickets for all possible winning combinations could be bought for less than \u00a31m, guaranteeing a profit if the jackpot were any higher. When the jackpot reached \u00a31.7m in May 1992, a syndicate of 28 players in Dublin, led by Polish-Irish businessman Stefan Klincewicz, had been preparing for such an event.They spent \u00a3820,000 on more than 1.6 million combinations. But they were one of three players to hit the jackpot, and only made up a profit \u00a3310,000 thanks to winnings from tickets that matched four or five numbers.Back in the UK, where the lottery will mark its 20th anniversary next year, Spiegelhalter admits to being an occasional player himself. \u201cI buy tickets for school demonstrations to show children why they shouldn\u2019t buy lottery tickets,\u201d he says. After crunching the numbers following Camelot\u2019s announcement, he adds: \u201cI have some great new material.\u201d","The Treasury is attempting to water down plans to give tax breaks and \"free\" state-funded hours of childcare to millions of working families.The proposals were due to be announced as part of the Government's mid-term review and help off-set criticism of the decision to withdraw child benefit from taxpayers earning over \u00a360,000 a year. At the same time Elizabeth Truss, the minister responsible for childcare, was due to announce new rules to allow nurseries to look after up to eight children for each member of staff. Currently the limit is four.It was hoped that together the moves would substantially bring down the cost of childcare which currently sees parents spending more than a quarter of their income on looking after their children while they are at work. But the Treasury is understood to be concerned at the cost of the proposals \u2013 which could be worth around \u00a32,000 a child \u2013 could lead to thousands of stay-at-home mums going back into the workplace.This, officials fear, could create a funding black-hole at a time when budgets across all Government departments are under intense pressure.At the same time the Liberal Democrats are worried that the plans to relax child/staff ratios could damage the standard of care provided. Nick Clegg has made it clear that he will refuse to sign off on any policy \"which jeopardises standards.\"So far the Coalition's ruling 'quad' of David Cameron, George Osborne, Mr Clegg and Danny Alexander have met twice in an attempt to iron out the differences between the Treasury and the Department of Education.But sources said little progress had been made. Government sources last night expressed frustration at the delay.\"This was supposed to be announced at the same time as the child benefit cap was introduced and show that we doing something for hard-working families,\" said one.\"But now it looks like we may not be able to work through all the issues before the budget.\"","Children in the poorest areas of the country are receiving significantly lower-quality childcare than those in wealthier places, a damning report will reveal.Research by the think tank Policy Exchange, to be published later this month, has discovered that 79 per cent of childminders and nurseries in better-off neighbourhoods were judged by Ofsted to be \"good\" or \"outstanding\", compared with 64\u00a0per cent within the most deprived areas.The research also reveals a gap between the educational development of children in rich and poor areas as they prepare to start school. The qualifications of childminders and nursery workers are lower in the most disadvantaged areas, while the vocabulary development of the poorest children is 16 months behind those from the highest-income families, the report says.Lower-income families base their\u00a0choice of where to send their child on cost alone, while middle-class parents prioritise quality \u2013 showing that it is wealthier families who are getting the best out of the childcare system.Policy Exchange said the huge discrepancies in childcare provision highlighted the need for the brightest and most inspirational graduates to be sent to work in nurseries in the most deprived areas under a form of \"Teach First\" for childcare. Councils should be required to publish quality league tables for childminders and nurseries in their areas so that parents can be better informed about where they are sending their children.The report's author, Harriet Waldegrave, said children in poor neighbourhoods needed high-quality provision the most. She added: \"Many women, especially those in lower-income households, want or need to work after the birth of children but the lack of high-quality, affordable childcare is preventing them from doing so.\"Early-years education will only have a positive impact on a child's development if it is of a high quality. While provision is improving, it's not doing so fast enough. Most worryingly, the lower-quality provision in disadvantaged areas means that the positive effects of early-years education are less likely to be seen for the children who need it most.\"The high cost and varying quality of childcare is one of the biggest challenges for the Government and George Osborne is under pressure to announce fresh help in his March Budget. Under the current system, two-year-olds from low-income families and all three-year-olds receive 15 hours of free childcare a week. A report last year by Cathy Nutbrown, a childcare expert, called for improvements in the quality of early-years education.Yet the Cabinet is split along coalition lines on how to fund cheaper childcare, with an announcement on tax allowances for parents, due earlier this month, delayed. Plans by the Education minister Liz Truss to relax childcare ratios are also being held up by internal government rows.In the most deprived 20 per cent of areas in England \u2013 based on the Income Deprivation Affecting Children Index \u2013 some 64 per cent of childcare providers were rated \"good\" or \"outstanding\". In the least deprived 20 per cent of neighbourhoods, 79 per cent of nurseries and childminders were rated in the higher-quality categories.Because deprivation varies greatly within a local authority area, the figures are calculated on a neighbourhood-by-neighbourhood level but the Ofsted data for some council areas also reveals a gap between rich and poor. In the London borough of Newham, for example, just 55 per cent of childcare providers are \"good\" or \"outstanding\", while in Manchester this figure is 57 per cent. In Richmond-upon-Thames, south-west London, 87 per cent of providers are \"good\" or \"outstanding\" and, in Bracknell Forest, 84 per cent are rated in the higher-quality categories.The gap between the development of children on the brink of going to school, depending on where they live, is also wide. In Middlesbrough, just 51 per cent of youngsters have reached a \"good\" level; in South Tyneside and Blackpool, the figure is 52 per cent; in Halton, Cheshire, it is 54 per cent; and in Liverpool, Oldham, Hull, Telford, Luton and Tower Hamlets, it is 55 per cent. By contrast, in Rutland, the level is 78\u00a0per cent; in the City of London and Trafford, it is 75 per cent; in Cheshire East and Greenwich, 74 per cent; for Richmond-upon-Thames and Solihull, 72 per cent; in Kingston-upon-Thames and Bexley, 71 per cent; and in Hammersmith and Fulham, it is 70 per cent.Anand Shukla, chief executive of the Daycare Trust, said: \"The Government has shown that it is committed to improving childcare quality; for example, by focusing funding for disadvantaged two- year-olds through good-quality childcare providers.\"It is essential that any government change in the next few weeks to childcare policy does not jeopardise quality \u2013 and the ratio of children to staff is a key factor in ensuring high-quality provision. As the Policy Exchange report demonstrates, the quality of childcare is markedly lower in disadvantaged areas and we are very concerned that the mooted relaxation of child-to-staff ratios will make this problem worse.\"YouGov polling of 1,637 people carried out for Policy Exchange shows that nearly half of people earning less than \u00a320,000 consider cost an important factor when choosing childcare, compared with 34 per cent of people earning between \u00a340,000 and \u00a360,000. Some 45 per cent of people on incomes of less than \u00a320,000 considered quality of childcare provider was an important factor, compared with 60\u00a0per cent of people in the higher-income bracket.Case studyChildcare bill: \u00a3300Ainsley Rees, 33, from Hereford, and his wife, Lisa, are both nurses. Their combined income is \u00a332,000. They have two daughters: Olivia, two, and Molly, seven\"Our youngest goes to nursery two days a week and our oldest goes to after-school club. The nursery is very good. The kids get a lot out of it, and they learn a lot of social skills.\"Our childcare works out well, maybe because we had the right nursery in the beginning, and our working hours can fit around our childcare. Our difficulty is that we do early shifts, and only a few nurseries in the city start at seven o'clock.\"It costs us about \u00a3300 a month and it's manageable. People earning less than us must really struggle.\"Childcare bill: \u00a3800Sarah Stimson, 38, from Walton-on-the-Naze, Essex, works for a charity and her husband, Paul, is in shipping. Their combined income is \u00a370,000. Their son, Franklin, is nine months old\"I work four days a week, two in London and two from home. My son goes to nursery all the days I'm working; it costs about \u00a3800 a month.\"I would like to work three days a week instead of four, but to be able to go to work and talk to grown-ups is good. And I think it's good for him to see other adults and children.\"It's a lovely nursery. They've got a chef who cooks the meals and the girl who looks after him is really lovely. Some days he's there with only a few children and some days there are lots; he gets the best of both worlds.\"","In simpler times, children were happy to receive the gift of a hula hoop or, if they were really lucky, a painting-by-numbers set. Plastic packaging was a novelty in Fifties Britain, rather than something to be cast aside. The last six decades have seen toys \u2013 and how we play with them \u2013 transformed, echoing radical shifts in the ways that we live and relate to each other.Britain's toy market has boomed as we have shifted from post-war hardship in the 1950s to today's all-consuming multimedia culture where children, and increasingly adults, demand ever more elaborate play time.Play is big business, with the UK market soaring from \u00a385m in 1960 to almost \u00a33bn a year now. Companies fight for dominance in an ever more competitive market, with some 70,000 toys launched each year.This week sees the 60th anniversary of the Toy Fair, the annual industry showcase organised by the British Toy &amp; Hobby Association, where hundreds of companies gather at the Kensington Olympia in west London to spend vast amounts launching what they hope will be the next big thing. Many will fail. But the ones that have captured the public's imagination over the years reflect major changes in British society.Professor Jeffrey Goldstein, a toy expert at Utrecht University, says: \"Toys, and play in general, reflect what goes on around children.\"TOYS OVER THE DECADES1950s: Dan DareAn age of post-war austerity but, as the decade went on, people started to treat themselves. Following the shortage of toys during wartime there was an increased demand for playthings and board games, with Scrabble a big success. Unlike Germany and Japan, Britain still had a thriving toy industry and companies were able to respond to this demand with quality toys such as Dinky and Matchbox vehicles, as well as comic-inspired offerings like Dan Dare merchandise. Another outcome of the war was the rise of anti-military feeling and toy weapons moved away from the more warlike examples.1960s: Matchbox; Scrabble; Lego; Scalextric; BarbieThe toy industry mirrored the general expansion and success of British industry. This was the heyday for many companies, producing quality toys of British design. Competing well against the American Barbie, Sindy became the favourite teenage fashion doll. Scalextric and Lego grew in popularity and new toys that caught the imagination included Etch-a-Sketch, Spirograph and trolls. Science-fiction toys such as robots, Daleks and Thunderbirds were very popular, reflecting the general interest in everything space-related.1970s: Clackers; Space hopper; MeccanoPolitical upheaval, strikes and economic recession damaged toy production in Britain. Several companies went out of business, but new types of toy were designed following changes in popular culture. Previously a soldier, Action Man became more adventurous. The Space Hopper, designed as a keep-fit ball, became one of the must-have toys. People were seeking more quirky toys and the decade saw the beginnings of fantasy and video games. Traditional favourites such as Meccano remained popular, as well as more basic toys like Clackers.1980s: Cabbage Patch Doll; Trivial Pursuit; Rubik's CubeToys reflected popular culture more than ever. Star Wars had started character merchandise rolling and this became the norm for many films and television programmes of the decade. As well as the quirky toys such as the Rubik's Cube and Cabbage Patch Dolls, there were also inventive ones such as Polly Pocket and, what is regarded as the last innovative board game, Trivial Pursuit. This was also the time when toys became valuable as collectors' items and old toys were sold at major auction houses as investments for the future.1990s: Tamagotchi; Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle; FurbyThis decade ushered in the digital age and the clever way in which new developments were incorporated into toys. The Furby on the outside was a lovable soft toy but it could interact with its owner. The Tamagotchi, a digital pet, was also a hit. People were expecting more from toys as well as from machines. Adults and children alike became hooked on computer games, especially portable ones. Toys and games were just part of a long list of expectations from the world of technology. And who can forget the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle range of toys?2000s: Transformers; LeapPad; BeybladesThe new century has continued to push the boundaries of digital technology and even babies can benefit from this type of toy. The LeapPad explorer tablet has taken over from traditional educational toys in a digital way. But some of the old favourites are still there. Barbie continues to vanquish all opposition and Lego adapts and goes from strength to strength. Some toys are making a nostalgic return. The favourites of the 1950s and 1960s, such as Corgi and Scalextric, are now reproduced for adults. And toys from the more recent past, like Transformers and Sylvanian Families, have been given makeovers. Older favourites are turned into something new, so spinning tops become BeybladesDecade profiles by Catherine Howell, collections manager, V&amp;A Museum of Childhood","A pioneering centre for troubled teenagers has become the first pupil referral unit in the country to secure academy status \u2013 allowing it to accept pupils who have not been expelled from another school.Ministers hope the freedoms granted to the newly named Complementary Education Academy in Northampton will encourage other pupil referral units to follow suit and take greater control of their admissions.Bobbie Kelly, the headteacher of the 230-pupil school for 11- to 16-year-olds, said she decided to quit local council control so she could help a wider range of young people.Complementary Education already operated on seven sites in Northamptonshire, but under its arrangement with the county council could only take in pupils after they had been excluded from mainstream schooling.Ms Kelly, whose school has been rated as \"outstanding\" by the education standards watchdog Ofsted, wanted to start working with pupils at risk of being excluded from school \u2013 so they could be helped before they were actually expelled.She said: \"Now we are able to negotiate directly with headteachers, take on pupils of theirs who are at risk of exclusion and get them back on track with their school and really engaging with education.\"The school has a remarkable record in re-engaging the young people it takes in with some form of education \u2013 70 per cent go back to their own school and 12 per cent go on to some form of training. It prepares personal GCSE programmes for all its children and has an exam pass rate far above the average for pupil referral units.On arrival at CEA every pupil is given an alarm clock \u2013 to drum into them the sense that punctuality and attendance is important.The Schools Minister, Elizabeth Truss, said: \"Academy status has given heads and teachers freedom to make the decisions they know will suit their pupils best \u2013 unconstrained by Whitehall and town hall politics and bureaucrats. Already thousands of mainstream schools have chosen to convert. Now the first pupil referral unit has chosen to do so \u2013 and children are already reaping the benefits of that decision.\"","Thousands of derelict homes in the North of England should be refurbished to help kick-start the stalled economic recovery, an influential think-tank says.The Centre for Cities also calls for a massive house-building programme in the 10 areas worst hit by housing shortages, all in the South.Its annual Cities Outlook report warns that Britain is building 100,000 fewer homes each year than is required.The Centre identifies 10 areas blighted by high numbers of empty homes in need of renovation.Burnley, where more than seven\u00a0per cent of properties are vacant, tops the list. It is followed by Bradford, Hull, Blackpool, Dundee, Leeds, Liverpool, Bolton, Blackburn and Birkenhead.The Centre also lists 10 cities in most need of house-building. Oxford \u2013 where the average house costs around \u00a3380,000 \u2013 has the least affordable properties. It is followed by London, Cambridge, Brighton, Bournemouth, Aldershot, Crawley, Reading, Bristol and Worthing.Building an extra 100,000 homes a year could create 150,000 jobs and provide a one per cent boost to the economy, the Centre says. Its chief executive, Alexandra Jones, said: \"For some cities, lack of housing prevents people accessing jobs or means they are stuck in cramped accommodation. In other cities, incentives to retrofit empty houses could improve local quality of life.\"","People trying to lose weight may need to consider not only what they eat but when they eat it.Scientists who studied the timing of meals have discovered that people who ate late in the day lost less weight than those who ate earlier.Even though they consumed the same total calories and expended the same energy, those who sat down to lunch late shed significantly fewer pounds than those who had their lunch early.The finding turns conventional advice on its head. Nutritionists spend much of their time exploding dieting \u201cmyths\u201d such as that eating at night leads to weight gain. Now they may have to reconsider.The conventional view is that the body will store as fat any extra calories consumed beyond those burnt as energy during the day, regardless of the time of day during which those extra calories are consumed.But it has been undermined by recent research in animals and humans suggesting that energy regulation and the laying down of adipose tissue (fat) is subject to a circadian rhythm, which , if disrupted, may lead to disturbances in metabolism.Studies have shown that mice fed at night gained more weight than mice fed during the day, even though both groups consumed the same amount and moved around as much.In humans, shift works are known to be more prone to obesity than day workers even though total energy used over 24 hours does not vary between them.In the latest study, researchers led by Professor Frank Scheer, director of the Medical Chronobiology Programme at Harvard Medical School, Boston, US, working with scientists at the University of Murcia in Spain, studied 420 Spanish women who were on a 20 week weight loss programme.The main meal of the day for this Mediterranean population was lunch which comprised 40 per cent of their total daily calorie consumption. Women who ate their lunch early \u2013 before 3 pm \u2013 lost significantly more weight than those who ate after 3pm. Late eaters also had a slower rate of weight loss. The findings are published in the .International Journal of ObesityProfessor Scheer said: \"This is the first large scale, prospective study to demonstrate that the timing of meals predicts weight-loss effectiveness.\"Professor Marcia Garaulet, a physiologist at the University of Murcia and lead author of the study, said: \u201cNovel therapeutic strategies should incorporate not only caloric intake and macronutrient distribution, as it is classically done, but also the timing of food.\u201d","Mental hospitals are effectively becoming prisons for people suffering from schizophrenia and other severe disorders, the head of an NHS watchdog has warned.David Behan, chief executive of the Care Quality Commission (CQC), the NHS regulator, said that in \u201ctoo many instances\u201d patients were being \u201crestricted inappropriately\u201d, which was hindering their recovery.More than 50,000 patients were detained in mental hospitals or made subject to compulsory treatment orders in the community in 2011-12. This was an increase of more than 5 per cent on the previous year.Launching the CQC\u2019s annual report on the working of the Mental Health Act last night, Mr Behan said: \u201cPeople who need treatment in hospital for their mental health should have care and support to help them recover.\u00a0 Some hospitals are doing a very good job in treating people with dignity and respect... CQC is concerned that some hospitals have allowed cultures to develop where control and containment are prioritised over treatment and care. Our report has found too many instances where people have been restricted inappropriately.\u201dInspectors visited 1,500 NHS mental hospital wards during the year. In one in five they found voluntary patients were being detained in all but name \u2013 an \u201cunacceptably high number\u201d, the report\u2019s authors say. \u201cThe human rights of patients are often affected by controlling practices that only seem to serve the hospital\u2019s needs\u2026 It has proved all too easy for cultures to develop in which blanket rules deny people their basic rights.\u201dDuring one visit to patients detained under the Act, none felt involved in decisions about their treatment or knew what was planned for their care or discharge, inspectors found.On other visits, voluntary patients were found locked in wards with no visible notices on how they could leave if they wanted to do so. One patient had to ask a member of staff to use their swipe card to unlock the toilet.Dr Peter Carter, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: \u201cIt is extremely worrying that mental health services are coming under increasing pressure with fewer specialists, higher bed occupancy and increased workloads. This echoes our own findings from our Frontline First campaign which show mental health trusts across the country are cutting staff. These cuts will undoubtedly have a detrimental effect on levels of care.\u201d","Child asylum seekers are living in destitiution in Britain \u2013 with their mothers forced into prositution \u2013 because of failures in the support system, a Parliamentary report has found.Homeless refugee mothers and newborns are being left unsupported by the Government while awaiting a decision on their applications for asylum status, according to the inquiry.Parents fleeing persecution in their homelands have even been forced to starve themselves in order to feed their children, the panel heard.Lib Dem MP Sarah Teather who chaired the investigation, said members of the panel felt ashamed and appalled by the testimony of asylum seekers, saying their treatment in the UK bordered on the inhumane.\u201cLeaving children and their families with no money to catch a bus, make a phone call, or buy basic goods seems senseless,\u201d she said.The Inquiry into Asylum Support for Children and Young People, which heard from more than 200 refugees, witnesses and organisations, also concluded the support system for families applying for refugee status may be leading to greater infant mortality and maternal deaths during pregnancy.During one hearing, charity Refugee Action said it had supported clients who have \u201cengaged in begging, transactional relationships and prostitution in order to access cash and alleviate poverty\u201d.The British Red Cross, which assists 10,000 destitute refugees and asylum seekers, said 20% of those were families with small children.The Scottish Refugee Council reported that during one week in March last year 148 asylum seekers were destitute in Glasgow alone, including 11 families with 21 children, five pregnant women and two new mothers.\u00a0\u201cI would buy one meal which I would share with my son. My son is my priority, therefore I will provide his nutritional needs before my own and occasionally starving myself\u201d one asylum seeker mother told the panel.Another new mother was forced to walk home from hospital in snow after giving birth with her baby in her arms because she had no money to buy a buggy or pay for a taxi.In November, an 11-year-old carer to whom it fell to do all the housework, cooking and interpreting for her disabled mother, said they had been left without money under the current asylum support system. The girl, Riyya told the inquiry, \u201cMy mum couldn\u2019t go [to sign in] every single week because of her disability, and if we don\u2019t go we can\u2019t get the money which meant a lot of the times we didn\u2019t have any money\u2026 it took around three or four months for them to realise.\u201dThere are an estimated 10,000 children living on asylum support in the UK, including 800 on the Section 4 programme, which is intended for refused asylum-seeking adults. Under Section 4, refused asylum seekers may only live in designated accommodation and instead of cash they receive money to a value of \u00a335.39 on an \u2018Azure card\u2019, which can only be used at designated outlets to buy food, essential toiletries and other items.Evidence heard during the inquiry called into question whether the Home Secretary Theresa May was meeting her duty to safeguard and promote the welfare of children subject to immigration control, under the UN Convention on the Rights of Children (UNCRC).A UK Border Agency spokesperson said: \u201cOur asylum support system meets the needs of asylum seekers and we take the welfare of children and families extremely seriously. No-one need face destitution if they comply with the law and the decisions of the courts and go home when required to do so.\u201dCase study: 'Maria' in the north east of EnglandI came to England nearly three years ago because I faced discrimination from the authorities where I came from as I was a different religion.My son who is under 10 years old is \u2018stateless\u2019, he is not a national of any country. I\u2019ve been moved to a lot of different places during the time of my asylum seeking process. Every time I have to change my life.I receive letter suddenly giving seven days\u2019 then you have to leave everything behind and start from zero, changing school, doctors, environment, everything. With our housing there is no privacy, housing people just enter the flats and wouldn\u2019t care that people live there.When I came out of bathroom once I found a male person standing in my living room. There is no respect for us. I think I would be able to support myself a little bit better if I could work but I\u2019m not allowed.I\u2019m on antidepressants and under mental health services. I don\u2019t see any hope for me and my son.","Asda's Christmas advert featuring a mother who appeared to be almost single-handedly carrying out the preparations has been cleared following more than 600 complaints that it was offensive and sexist.The supermarket giant's major Christmas campaign showed the mother buying the tree, writing cards, buying groceries, decorating her home, wrapping presents and cooking the Christmas dinner, with a voice-over at the end saying: \"It doesn't just happen by magic. Behind every great Christmas there's mum, and behind mum there's Asda.\"The majority of the 620 complainants objected that the ad was offensive and sexist because it reinforced outdated stereotypes of men and women in the home.A number objected that it was likely to cause serious offence to single fathers or to men who played a primary domestic role and some others believed it was offensive and distressing to children or families who had lost mothers.Defending the campaign, Asda said a survey of 1,896 customers who were mothers found around eight in 10 were responsible for the food and present shopping and wrapping the presents, adding that it intended to portray a scene which reflected the Christmas experience of the majority of its shoppers.It also pointed out that the father played a positive role by helping with preparations, hosting the family and looking after the children.ITV, which screened the ad, argued that it depicted a broadly positive stereotypical depiction of the role of mothers at Christmas, adding that \"in general, stereotypical portrayals were inevitably based on truisms\".The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said viewers were likely to understand that the ad was attempting to reflect the Christmas experience of a significant number of its customers rather than a prescriptive view.It said: \"We therefore considered the ad was not likely to be seen as condoning or encouraging harmful discriminatory behaviour or reinforcing negative stereotypes of men or women in general and, for those reasons, considered it was unlikely to cause serious or widespread offence.\"While it acknowledged that single fathers and men with primary domestic responsibilities might find the presentation of the mother playing the central role \"distasteful\", it also noted that the ad showed the father assisting in the Christmas preparations, concluding that: \"We therefore considered the ad was not likely to cause serious offence to single fathers or to men who played a primary domestic role and concluded that the ad did not breach the Code.\"The ASA also said that while the theme of the ad might upset some people, including children, who had lost mothers, it was unlikely to cause serious or widespread offence or distress to those viewers.PA","A coalition pledge urging hospitals to share violent crime data with police to help fight crime is only being carried out properly in a third of areas in England, a Department of Health (DH) report has revealed.Sharing such information could cut violent crime by up to 40% in some areas and the failure to do so effectively has prompted public health minister Anna Soubry to write to health chiefs for an explanation.In 2010, the Government made it clear that hospitals should share non-confidential information with police to help cut crime.This involves telling police and local councils the time and place of assaults, the types of weapon used and the types of attack.The data is used to paint a picture of violence in an area so resources can be better deployed to tackle it.The DH report showed that cities and towns like Cardiff, Cambridge and Northampton have seen a drop in assaults as a result of hospitals sharing anonymised information with police.The information-sharing programme, which has been backed by the World Health Organisation, was pioneered in Cardiff where it has been linked to a 40% reduction in violent crime after four years, the DH said.But while almost 75% of areas in England have started to put in data-sharing systems, just a third of areas are doing this effectively, and a fifth are not doing it at all, the report said.Only around 25% of assaults that need medical attention are reported to police, according to the DH, but when information is shared on where the crime happened and how, police can spot patterns developing and target resources effectively in hotspots.Ms Soubry called on hospitals to improve how they share data with police, saying there are no \"logistical or legal\" barriers and asking them to explain any \"good reasons why it cannot be done\".\"We can cut the number of lives blighted by violent crime if the NHS works with the police as well as it can - which is why I have asked to see further improvements,\" she wrote.\"Many victims of assault go to the A&amp;E department for treatment but do not report the incident to the police. So it's vital that hospitals work with the police by sharing anonymised information about the assault victims that they see.\"Many hospitals and police forces share information really well already and the results show this, but we want to make sure every area across the country puts this work into place.\"Professor Jonathan Shepherd, director of the violence research group at Cardiff University, said:\"This approach is clearly effective and very cost effective in preventing violence, particularly violence which leads to injury.\"In Cardiff, this initiative was associated with 746 fewer violence-related A&amp;E attendances and 87 fewer hospital admissions in 2012 compared with 2007.\"I'd encourage hospitals throughout England and Wales to adopt the same way of working and make every effort to collaborate with local safety partnerships.\"PA","England's much-lamented slide down the international education league tables may not be as bad as it seems, according to a report by a leading academic.The study by Professor Alan Smithers, director of the Centre for Education and Employment at Buckingham University, claims that political \"spin\" rather than a drop in standards may have been responsible for the decline.He argues that Labour \"talked up\" the findings of tests in 2000 which placed England fourth in science, seventh in literacy and eighth in maths of all Western nations, despite the fact that this country's results should not have been included because too few pupils sat the tests to meet the criteria for inclusion.The exaggerated performance in 2000 paved the way for Education Secretary Michael Gove to talk of a major slump in standards after England came 16th in science, 23rd in reading and 27th in maths in 2011.When reading showed an improvement in a different series of tests last year, ministers focused on a slump in science. The report for the Sutton Trust educational charity says: \"The current Coalition Government has been seeking justification for the changes it wishes to make to the education system.\"","The affluent London borough of Kensington and Chelsea is removing litter bins claiming they attract the wrong kind of rubbish.The local authority is concerned that bins are being used for commercial and residential waste that should be collected directly from businesses and homes.In future the council plans to only place bins in busy areas, including shopping and tourist streets and outside schools, fast food restaurants, Tube stations and bus stops.The council has already carried out a trial of the new plans on Earl\u2019s Court Road, and reported only a very slight increase in littering.\u201cBoth types of \u2018abuse\u2019 waste can fill litter bins very quickly as they tend to be full bags rather than \u2018on-the-go\u2019 litter,\u201d a report compiled for the local authority said.The authority has denied that the decision to withdraw the number of bins was about saving money, as it is already spending around \u00a360,000 on new bins for the area.However, residents have said the policy would lead to \u201cchaos\u201d as people would not look for a bin elsewhere.William Casey, 20, a chemical engineering student from north London, speaking told the London : \u201cPeople would just leave [litter] if they have nowhere else to put it. They can\u2019t carry it around. I just hope they leave them next to the station for people\u2019s recycling.\u201dEvening StandardA report on the proposals by the council\u2019s head of waste and street enforcement, stated: \u201cThere are two schools of thought regarding litter bins; one is that litter bins are needed for the public to use, indeed that some members of the public look for litter bins in which to deposit waste, otherwise they may take it home or drop it on the street. The other is that litter bins attract more rubbish, some of which can be unpaid-for commercial waste and domestic waste.\u201dThe decision to reduce the number of bins follows the controversial experiment the council undertook to implement a \u201cnaked streets\u201d policy of removing all road markings, signs and pedestrian barriers on one road in the borough.","David Cameron today arrived in the WestAfrican state of Liberia and called for the next wave of internationaldevelopment targets to focus on extreme poverty.Mr Cameron is jointly chairing a high-level UN panel with the country's president Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf to decide what targets to bring in after the Millennium Development Goals expire in 2015.Speaking before the meeting Mr Cameron said his focus would be pushing to direct aid spending at the very poorest people.\u201cLiberia is a country that was absolutely devastated by conflict and civil war,\u201d he said.\u201cIt is now recovering but there is still desperate poverty. I think it is very important we keep a focus on eradicating extreme poverty.\u201cHere in Liberia, one in 10 children do not make it to the age of five. But I also think it is important we look at those things that keep countries poor. Conflict, corruption, lack of justice, lack of the rule of law.\u201cThese things matter as well as money.\u201dBefore the meeting Mr Cameron visited the Anna F Whisnant Elementary school with the country's president, 74-year-old Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.Meeting children in the playground outside the school, he asked them all what they wanted to do. Many of them said they wanted to be doctors, lawyers and even government ministers.Asked by Mr Cameron what they would do if they ran the school, one child replied: \u201cOpen a library.\u201dMr Cameron replied: \u201cIf you ask children in the UK, all they want to be is pop stars and footballers.\"Mr Cameron has strongly defended the aid spending despite the austerity being imposed to balance the country's books.However, the Government has yet to fulfil its commitment to enshrine the GDP ratio in law.The next round of development goals are due to run from 2015 to 2030.Mr Cameron favours targets that focus on eradicating absolute poverty over the period.","The number of women suspected of being trafficked to perform housework in embassies and private houses in Britain has increased amid warnings that vulnerable workers have been denied an escape route from domestic servitude by new immigration rules.Victims of domestic servitude referred to a specialist service helping trafficked people more than doubled in the six months to December, according to the Salvation Army which runs a \u00a32m contract on behalf of the Ministry of Justice.Charities working with foreign maids said the number of people being abused by their employers was likely to be far higher, with women refusing to tell the authorities for fear of being thrown out of the country.The rise in domestic servitude comes amid a 25 per cent increase in the number of trafficking victims reported in 2012 to the national referral mechanism. The authorities say the increase to nearly 1,200 people could be attributable to both better detection of trafficking rings and an increase in the crime.The Salvation Army said 37 women were referred to its network of safe houses and counselling services in the six months to December \u2013 compared with 31 in the year before that. National figures show a small increase in trafficking for domestic servitude over 2012 but charities say the figures do not reflect the true scale of the problem.Figures show that the highest number of trafficked women were from Nigeria. Workers have reported suffering sexual, psychological and physical abuse at the hands of their employers with some effectively kept prisoner in the home for years for pitiful pay.Until April last year, maids were able to move employer and stay in Britain on their visa as long as they remained in work.However, under changes introduced last year, overseas domestic workers are allowed a maximum six-month visa and are not allowed to move employer. Maids who are brought over to work in diplomatic missions are allowed to remain for up to five years \u2013 but again only with the same employer.Two organisations working with the maids \u2013 Kalayaan and Justice for Domestic Workers \u2013 said the change in the law meant that women were less willing to leave abusive employers. Those who did were increasingly going underground without any official documents, they said.\u201cThe domestic worker depends on the employer for everything,\u201d said Kate Roberts, of Kalayaan. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t leave them with any option. They either have to remain in a situation of exploitation or leave and be in breach of their immigration status. They are driven underground or returned home and again become vulnerable to trafficking.\u201dEven before the law was brought in, Kalayaan identified 157 trafficked migrant domestic workers between 2008 and 2010 and two-thirds of those refused to be referred to the authorities. The group found more than half of the women had received wages of less than \u00a350 a week and the majority had their passport withheld and were not allowed to go out unaccompanied.The Home Office said the Government was committed to tackling trafficking. \u201cThe most effective way to do that is by working together to better identify and support victims and target the criminal gangs behind trafficking, not blaming immigration controls,\u201d said a spokesman.Case Study: I was told to call her \u2018Auntie\u2019 \u2013 then she enslaved meGigi, 24, is a Nigerian now at college in the UK after being rescued by the charity Eaves.When I was about 12 years old my parents died in religious riots.I met a lady who said she knew my family. She told me she would look after me. She told me to call her \u2018Auntie\u2019 and to do whatever she told me. When I was 15 years old, Auntie told me she was going to London.I was treated like a slave and locked in the house for six years. I had to look after the children day and night, do all the housework and I had to sleep on the floor in the children\u2019s room. I hardly slept and wasn\u2019t given enough food. If Auntie went out with the children, I would be locked in the house.I wasn\u2019t allowed to answer the phone, open the curtains, watch TV or go into the garden. Once, she pushed me down the stairs and I found out I had fractured my arm. I was never paid for the work I did and I never had any healthcare. Auntie told me that because I was illegal the police would arrest me and send me back to Nigeria.I felt desperate and most nights I cried myself to sleep.\u00a0","Children from wealthy homes are more likely to be picked on and bullied at school because of their background, according to new research published today.A study of 1,843 British students reveals almost eight per cent have suffered bullying as a result of their social class - mostly because their parents were rich or they had \u201cposh\u201d accents.The figures are contained in a report on bullying by an anti-bullying organisation set up by a victim of bullying himself, Liam Hackett, which reveals that seven out of ten young people claim to have been victims of bullying by the time they reach the age of 18.Ditch The Label,The report shows the majority (60 per cent) say they have been bullied because of their appearance - which can either be because they are too fat or too thin,\u00a0 Other reasons commonly cited included interests or hobbies (36 per cent)\u00a0\u00a0 In addition, just over one in five (21 per cent) have been victims of online cyber-bullying - a trend which the organisers of the survey believe will grow.Jon Cross, a 20-year-old now studying anthropology at Sussex University, said he was bullied after switching from a private to a state school at the age of 12 after his parents divorced - putting a financial strain on the family.\u201cI experienced a lot of verbal bullying and was targeted because of my voice and the way I pronounced words,\u201d he said.\u201cI spoke posh and felt like I stood out.\u00a0 I was called posh boy for a while and a group of people in my class would try and get me to do things that would get me into trouble.\u201dMr Hackett, aged 22, said he had been taunted because of his sexuality.\u00a0 Rumours about his personal life were posted on a website where fellow pupils would trade taunts and insults about him.\u201cAt this point I was 15 and still wasn\u2019t sure about my sexuality but couldn\u2019t take any\u00a0 more and broke down, telling my mum everything,\u201d he said.\u00a0 \u201cI was essentially forced into coming out before I knew for sure if I was actually gay.\u00a0 It was absolutely humiliating.\u201dDitch The Label plans to distribute copies of its research to every school and college to urge them to be vigilant about bullying.","Hopes of wiping out pulmonary tuberculosis suffered a major setback today, as the most promising new vaccine was shown to do little to protect children.Pulmonary TB is most common form of the disease among adolescents and adults, killing 1.4 million people around the world each year. The MVA85A vaccine candidate, developed by British researchers, had shown positive results in stimulating high levels of immune response in adults during earlier trials.But scientists spoke of their disappointment after the potential vaccine failed to replicate this success in its first field trials on children.The findings of the research conducted in South Africa, published in The Lancet, have dealt a blow to the fight against TB. The only existing vaccine, BCG, was created 90 years ago and does not prevent pulmonary TB.\u00a0Helen McShane from the University of Oxford, who helped develop the vaccine, said: \u201cThe [MVA85A] vaccine induced modest immune responses against TB in the infants, but these were much lower than those previously seen in adults, and were insufficient to protect against the disease.\u201dOf 2794 healthy, BCG-vaccinated infants aged 4-6 months, 1,399 infants received the drug while 1,395 were given a placebo. Three years after treatment, researchers found 39 cases of TB in the placebo group and 32 in the MVA85A group. Christopher Dye, a director of health information at the World Health Organisation, told The Independent there was \u201cstill hope\u201d, despite the disappointing results.The \u201cbig target\u201d in the war against TB is pulmonary lung disease in adults, he said. \u201cTo see the effect on children is important and gives interesting results, but it leaves open the question of how a vaccine of this sort would be able to protect adults, who are the greatest victims of pulmonary lung disease around the world.\u201d"]},{"x":0.399957498496447,"y":0.350036452574724,"no_docs":8,"words":[{"prob":8.1037789570407e-05,"word":"building"},{"prob":1.71612501458069e-05,"word":"budget"},{"prob":1.71612501458069e-05,"word":"years"},{"prob":1.71612501458069e-05,"word":"defence"},{"prob":0.000754859481179573,"word":"plan"},{"prob":3.85481476981494e-05,"word":"programme"},{"prob":1.71612501458069e-05,"word":"pemex"}],"docs":["Crowds gathered outside the presidential offices in Tbilisi yesterday to demand the removal of President Mikheil Saakashvili, whose term in office they say should be ending.Protesters said the President's second term should expire today, five years from his inauguration. The constitution limits the presidential term to five years but does not call for elections until October this year.Mr Saakashvili's National Movement party was defeated in parliamentary elections in October. Bidzina Ivanishvili became Prime Minister, forcing a difficult cohabitation.Reuters","The Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude is expected to launch a key part of his cyber-security strategy this week, as the Government attempts to protect big business and Whitehall from mounting digital attacks.Following a successful pilot project called Auburn, government and industry are poised to unveil what it describes as a \"permanent information sharing environment\".This secure online site, called the Cyber-security Information Sharing Partnership (Cisp), will allow businesses, cyber-security experts and government officials to detail attacks that have been made on their IT and how they have tried to repel them. \"This is about securing UK plc,\" said a source close to the development of Cisp.The Government is concerned by evidence that business is being badly hit financially by hackers, while cyber-crime has been estimated to cost the economy as much as \u00a327bn a year and is rising. The accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers recently found that 93 per cent of large corporations had suffered a cyber attack in 2012, with each breach costing up to \u00a3250,000.Andrew Beckett, head of Cassidian Cyber Security Consulting Services, who has advised the Royal Family and the United Nations, said: \"The challenge is to raise awareness among FTSE 100 companies and utilities that the requirements for cyber governance should be the same as those for financial governance.\"We don't have anything that looks at IT security, protecting personal information, staff, suppliers and clients. We need to move awareness up to the boardroom so that they know that this isn't an issue that's going to go away.\"The Government's national security strategy, launched in 2010, saw \u00a3650m allocated to a cyber-security programme over the following decade.","Government plans for Armed Forces spending appeared to be in disarray today after the Defence Secretary was unable to confirm David Cameron's apparent commitment to above-inflation budget rises.Earlier, senior sources were said to have confirmed that Cameron would honour the commitment to above-inflation rises in the defence budget after 2015.Tensions have been growing in the Coalition as negotiations begin over how to save billions of pounds more in the 2015-16 spending review, with Defence Secretary Philip Hammond believed to be among ministers opposed to further cuts.Mr Hammond has already seen his budget slashed by 8% in real terms since 2010.During a trip to North Africa the PM signalled that he \"does not resile\" from comments he made in October 2010, when he appeared to accept that defence spending had to start rising again from 2015 onwards.However, Mr Hammond today said that the equipment side of his budget - accounting for roughly half of MoD spending - would rise in real terms, but that there would be a \"robust discussion\" about other elements.\"I have a firm commitment that the equipment plan, which is a very large part of the defence budget, will rise in real terms by 1% a year between 2015 and 2020, that's a commitment that has previously been made and repeated since the Chancellor delivered his Autumn Statement,\" he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.\"But there is going to be a spending review for 2015/16 and I will go into that arguing the case for the resources that defence needs to deliver the plan that we have set out, Future Force 2020, and I am very confident that we will have a robust discussion about that.\"On the subject of overall defence spending Mr Hammond said: \"What I know is that I have a firm commitment on the equipment plan, which about roughly half the defence budget is covered by that. That will rise in real terms after 2015.\"Asked whether staffing budgets could be cut, he said: \"The rest of the budget will be subject to a discussion around the spending review the Chancellor announced in the Autumn Statement. But I'm going into that spending review discussion on the basis that I expect the outputs that I have defined to be protected.\"Tory backbenchers are among those voicing fears that the long-term capabilities of the military could be degraded unless more money is found.The issue has been cast into sharper relief by the Government's commitment of up to 330 personnel and air support to the campaign against rebels in Mali.Protecting MoD budgets could mean harsher treatment for the police and other services.The confusion comes amid warnings from the Whitehall spending watchdog that any further cost-overruns on the Ministry of Defence equipment programme could jeopardise its future plans for the armed forces and as Mr Hammond published a detailed equipment plan for the next ten years which, he said, had finally eliminated a \u00a379 billion \"black hole\" inherited from the former Labour government.The \u00a3159 billion programme includes \u00a335.8 billion for a new generation of nuclear-powered submarines, \u00a318.5 billion for combat aircraft for the RAF and \u00a317.4 billion for Royal Navy warships, including the Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.Within the plan there is \u00a34.8 billion for contingencies as well as \u00a38 billion of \"unallocated\" funding which the MoD said would be allocated to meet new equipment priorities as they emerged over the coming decade.But the National Audit Office said there was \"systemic over-optimism\" built in to the MoD's planning which ran the risk of leaving \"capability gaps\" in the years ahead. While the NAO acknowledged that the MoD had taken \"significant positive steps\" to address the affordability of the equipment programme, it expressed concern that the contingency allocation was insufficient.It warned that if the MoD was forced to fall back on the unallocated funding to make-up the shortfall, it would be unable to deliver in full the plans set out in the 2010 Strategic Defence and Security Review - known as Future Force 2020.\"There is systemic over-optimism inherent in the department's assumptions around the costing of risk and uncertainty at both project and portfolio levels, which may not be sufficiently mitigated by the contingency provision,\" the NAO said.\"The \u00a38 billion of unallocated budget does offer protection to the core programme. However, our review of departmental documents and interviews with departmental personnel suggest that the unallocated budget is essential to deliver the full intent behind Future Force 2020.\"Using this budget to protect the core programme would therefore result in capability gaps.\"Margaret Hodge, the chairman of the Commons Public Accounts Committee, said they would be taking evidence from MoD officials in order to assess the robustness of the plan.\"The Ministry's track record in forecasting accurately the cost of its largest projects hardly inspires confidence,\" she said.\"Between 2000 and 2012, the cost of its 69 largest projects ballooned by \u00a311 billion. Independent analysis in 2009 found that final project costs were typically 40% higher than the Ministry's initial forecasts.\"Given this past performance, I am dismayed that the Ministry is still taking an over-optimistic view to putting a price on risk and uncertainty.\"Mr Hammond, however, insisted that the plan would ensure that Britain's armed forces remained among the most capable and best equipped anywhere in the world.\"For the first time in a generation the armed forces will have a sustainable equipment plan,\" he said.\"Step by step, we are clearing up years of mismanagement under the last government by ending the culture of over-promising and under-delivering that created a multibillion pound black hole in the defence budget.\"","Government plans for Armed Forces spending appeared to be in disarray today after the Defence Secretary was unable to confirm David Cameron's apparent commitment to above-inflation budget rises.Earlier, senior sources were said to have confirmed that Cameron would honour the commitment to above-inflation rises in the defence budget after 2015.Tensions have been growing in the Coalition as negotiations begin over how to save billions of pounds more in the 2015-16 spending review, with Defence Secretary Philip Hammond believed to be among ministers opposed to further cuts.Mr Hammond has already seen his budget slashed by 8% in real terms since 2010.During a trip to North Africa the PM signalled that he \"does not resile\" from comments he made in October 2010, when he appeared to accept that defence spending had to start rising again from 2015 onwards.However, Mr Hammond today said that the equipment side of his budget - accounting for roughly half of MoD spending - would rise in real terms, but that there would be a \"robust discussion\" about other elements.\"I have a firm commitment that the equipment plan, which is a very large part of the defence budget, will rise in real terms by 1% a year between 2015 and 2020, that's a commitment that has previously been made and repeated since the Chancellor delivered his Autumn Statement,\" he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.\"But there is going to be a spending review for 2015/16 and I will go into that arguing the case for the resources that defence needs to deliver the plan that we have set out, Future Force 2020, and I am very confident that we will have a robust discussion about that.\"On the subject of overall defence spending Mr Hammond said: \"What I know is that I have a firm commitment on the equipment plan, which about roughly half the defence budget is covered by that. That will rise in real terms after 2015.\"Asked whether staffing budgets could be cut, he said: \"The rest of the budget will be subject to a discussion around the spending review the Chancellor announced in the Autumn Statement. But I'm going into that spending review discussion on the basis that I expect the outputs that I have defined to be protected.\"Tory backbenchers are among those voicing fears that the long-term capabilities of the military could be degraded unless more money is found.The issue has been cast into sharper relief by the Government's commitment of up to 330 personnel and air support to the campaign against rebels in Mali.Protecting MoD budgets could mean harsher treatment for the police and other services.The confusion comes amid warnings from the Whitehall spending watchdog that any further cost-overruns on the Ministry of Defence equipment programme could jeopardise its future plans for the armed forces and as Mr Hammond published a detailed equipment plan for the next ten years which, he said, had finally eliminated a \u00a379 billion \"black hole\" inherited from the former Labour government.The \u00a3159 billion programme includes \u00a335.8 billion for a new generation of nuclear-powered submarines, \u00a318.5 billion for combat aircraft for the RAF and \u00a317.4 billion for Royal Navy warships, including the Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.Within the plan there is \u00a34.8 billion for contingencies as well as \u00a38 billion of \"unallocated\" funding which the MoD said would be allocated to meet new equipment priorities as they emerged over the coming decade.But the National Audit Office said there was \"systemic over-optimism\" built in to the MoD's planning which ran the risk of leaving \"capability gaps\" in the years ahead. While the NAO acknowledged that the MoD had taken \"significant positive steps\" to address the affordability of the equipment programme, it expressed concern that the contingency allocation was insufficient.It warned that if the MoD was forced to fall back on the unallocated funding to make-up the shortfall, it would be unable to deliver in full the plans set out in the 2010 Strategic Defence and Security Review - known as Future Force 2020.\"There is systemic over-optimism inherent in the department's assumptions around the costing of risk and uncertainty at both project and portfolio levels, which may not be sufficiently mitigated by the contingency provision,\" the NAO said.\"The \u00a38 billion of unallocated budget does offer protection to the core programme. However, our review of departmental documents and interviews with departmental personnel suggest that the unallocated budget is essential to deliver the full intent behind Future Force 2020.\"Using this budget to protect the core programme would therefore result in capability gaps.\"Margaret Hodge, the chairman of the Commons Public Accounts Committee, said they would be taking evidence from MoD officials in order to assess the robustness of the plan.\"The Ministry's track record in forecasting accurately the cost of its largest projects hardly inspires confidence,\" she said.\"Between 2000 and 2012, the cost of its 69 largest projects ballooned by \u00a311 billion. Independent analysis in 2009 found that final project costs were typically 40% higher than the Ministry's initial forecasts.\"Given this past performance, I am dismayed that the Ministry is still taking an over-optimistic view to putting a price on risk and uncertainty.\"Mr Hammond, however, insisted that the plan would ensure that Britain's armed forces remained among the most capable and best equipped anywhere in the world.\"For the first time in a generation the armed forces will have a sustainable equipment plan,\" he said.\"Step by step, we are clearing up years of mismanagement under the last government by ending the culture of over-promising and under-delivering that created a multibillion pound black hole in the defence budget.\"","A former RAF station - complete with its own helipad, bunker and high-security fence - has been put up for sale on the auction website eBay.The Neatishead radar base in Norfolk opened in 1941 and played a key role in monitoring the skies during the cold war and the Second World War.It was decommissioned in 2006 and has since been largely unused and a new owner is being sought.An asking price of \u00a32.5 million has been set putting the 25-acre site firmly out of the reach of all but the most affluent eBay bargain hunters.While this is described as a \"substantial\" reduction from its previous value, the seller stressed that serious bids would be needed.Agent Nick Barlow, from Midlands-based Barlow Associates, said the base had been on the market for some time and he hoped the eBay listing would attract extra interest.He said: \"There's only so much you can do in property magazines so we thought we'd try this and it has proved remarkably effective.\"It is something slightly different for people who wouldn't otherwise have heard about it.\"The site has potential for a wide range of uses. The underground bunker would be a very good data storage centre and its proximity to the Norfolk Broads and the coast open up leisure possibilities.\"Mr Barlow added that while the sale was unusual, cuts to defence budgets mean more opportunities are likely to open up for anyone wanting to invest in a former military base.There are 16 buildings on the site, including former radar rooms, tennis and squash courts, station headquarters and the old officers' mess.The underground bunker dates from the Cold War years,Birmingham-based Stylespace bought the land from the RAF in 2006 for a reported \u00a34 million but it has proved unsuitable for their plans.The RAF still carries out communication work for aircraft on a small part of the site. This would remain, alongside the RAF Air Defence Radar Museum, which was established on the air base 14 years ago.Although the page has attracted 5,000 hits, so far no offers have been made. Bidding ends next Friday.It is also being sold through the website http://www.barlowassociates.net.","A video of a determined little puppy trying to keep up with its mother on a running machine has gone viral.\u00a0Bandit the pitbull is seen repeatedly silding off the back of the treadmill while his mother carries walking unaware of her pup's attempts.However, the tenacious pooch tries several times to get back on and at one point manages to successfully ride for several seconds before sliding off again.","A powerful explosion rocked the Mexico City headquarters of state-owned oil giant Pemex yesterday, killing at least 25 people, injuring more than 100 and trapping others inside.The mid-afternoon blast in a neighbouring building shattered the lower floors of the downtown tower, throwing debris into the streets and sending frightened workers running outside.A government official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a preliminary line of investigation was that the blast came from a gas boiler that exploded in the adjacent Pemex building. But the cause was still being determined, the official added.The explosion at the building complex, where thousands of Pemex employees worked, was the latest in a series of serious safety problems to hit Mexico's national oil monopoly.Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong said the blast killed at least 25 people, injured over 100, and that the number of casualties could rise.Rescue workers were still searching for employees trapped inside the Pemex skyscraper on Thursday night. At least one person had been rescued alive, Osorio Chong said.Mauricio Parra, a paramedic at the scene, said that as many as 100 people could be trapped at the offices of Pemex, a national institution that President Enrique Pena Nieto's administration has pledged to reform this year.Police quickly cordoned off the building, and television images showed the explosion caused major damage to the ground floor and blew out windows on the lower floors of the tower.\"You could feel it all through the building,\" said Mario Guzman, a Pemex worker who was on the 10th floor of the building, which is more than 50 stories high.First mistaking the blast for an earthquake, Guzman, who said he escaped after running down the stairs, feared the building would collapse on top of him and his colleagues, \"and that we would end up like a sandwich.\"Pemex said initially the tower was evacuated due to a problem with its electricity supply. It then said there had been an explosion, but did not say what caused it.The Pemex blast occurred shortly before many workers were due to end their shifts at the complex.The company said its business would not be affected by the incident and that it would continue to operate normally.FORCE OF LAWEarlier in the evening, Pena Nieto, who took office in December, went to the scene and said the explosion would be thoroughly investigated. He vowed to apply \"the force of the law\" if anyone was found to be responsible for it.Mexican media reported that after the blast, security officials carried out a precautionary search of Congress for explosive devices, but found nothing.Asked about this, Osorio Chong said normal security procedures were being followed, but added that \"additional care\" was being taken while the blast was being cleared up.Helicopters buzzed around the building and lines of fire trucks sped to the entrance, while emergency workers ferried injured people through wreckage strewn on the street.Search-and-rescue dogs were sent into the skyscraper, a Mexico City landmark that sports a distinctive \"hat\" on top.Some families of people working in the tower were impatient for news about missing relatives.Gloria Garcia, 53, herself a Pemex worker who was not in the building during the explosion, came to see if she could track down her son, who worked in one of the floors hit.\"I'm calling his phone and he's not answering,\" Garcia said, weeping as she called repeatedly on her phone. \"Nobody knows anything. They won't let me through. I want to see my son whatever state he's in.\"Pemex has experienced a number of deadly accidents in recent years and lesser safety problems have been a regular occurrence. In September, 30 people died after an explosion at a Pemex natural gas facility in northern Mexico.More than 300 were killed when a Pemex natural gas plant on the outskirts of Mexico City exploded in 1984.Eight years later, about 200 people were killed and 1,500 injured after a series of underground gas explosions in Guadalajara, Mexico's second biggest city. An official investigation found Pemex was partly to blame.Alberto Islas, a security analyst at consultancy Risk Evaluation, said the explosion at the Pemex offices was another blot against the company's safety record.\"We've seen this time and again at Pemex. They don't have a well-integrated policy,\" Islas said, noting it would probably take several hours before investigators would be able to determine the cause of the explosion.Pemex, a symbol of Mexican self-sufficiency since the oil industry was nationalized in 1938, has been held back by inefficiency and corruption and by the burden it shoulders of providing about a third of federal tax revenues.Pena Nieto has pledged to open up the company to more private investment to improve its performance.Reuters","A powerful explosion rocked the Mexico City headquarters of state-owned oil giant Pemex yesterday, killing at least 25 people, injuring more than 100 and trapping others inside.The mid-afternoon blast in a neighbouring building shattered the lower floors of the downtown tower, throwing debris into the streets and sending frightened workers running outside.A government official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a preliminary line of investigation was that the blast came from a gas boiler that exploded in the adjacent Pemex building. But the cause was still being determined, the official added.The explosion at the building complex, where thousands of Pemex employees worked, was the latest in a series of serious safety problems to hit Mexico's national oil monopoly.Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong said the blast killed at least 25 people, injured over 100, and that the number of casualties could rise.Rescue workers were still searching for employees trapped inside the Pemex skyscraper on Thursday night. At least one person had been rescued alive, Osorio Chong said.Mauricio Parra, a paramedic at the scene, said that as many as 100 people could be trapped at the offices of Pemex, a national institution that President Enrique Pena Nieto's administration has pledged to reform this year.Police quickly cordoned off the building, and television images showed the explosion caused major damage to the ground floor and blew out windows on the lower floors of the tower.\"You could feel it all through the building,\" said Mario Guzman, a Pemex worker who was on the 10th floor of the building, which is more than 50 stories high.First mistaking the blast for an earthquake, Guzman, who said he escaped after running down the stairs, feared the building would collapse on top of him and his colleagues, \"and that we would end up like a sandwich.\"Pemex said initially the tower was evacuated due to a problem with its electricity supply. It then said there had been an explosion, but did not say what caused it.The Pemex blast occurred shortly before many workers were due to end their shifts at the complex.The company said its business would not be affected by the incident and that it would continue to operate normally.FORCE OF LAWEarlier in the evening, Pena Nieto, who took office in December, went to the scene and said the explosion would be thoroughly investigated. He vowed to apply \"the force of the law\" if anyone was found to be responsible for it.Mexican media reported that after the blast, security officials carried out a precautionary search of Congress for explosive devices, but found nothing.Asked about this, Osorio Chong said normal security procedures were being followed, but added that \"additional care\" was being taken while the blast was being cleared up.Helicopters buzzed around the building and lines of fire trucks sped to the entrance, while emergency workers ferried injured people through wreckage strewn on the street.Search-and-rescue dogs were sent into the skyscraper, a Mexico City landmark that sports a distinctive \"hat\" on top.Some families of people working in the tower were impatient for news about missing relatives.Gloria Garcia, 53, herself a Pemex worker who was not in the building during the explosion, came to see if she could track down her son, who worked in one of the floors hit.\"I'm calling his phone and he's not answering,\" Garcia said, weeping as she called repeatedly on her phone. \"Nobody knows anything. They won't let me through. I want to see my son whatever state he's in.\"Pemex has experienced a number of deadly accidents in recent years and lesser safety problems have been a regular occurrence. In September, 30 people died after an explosion at a Pemex natural gas facility in northern Mexico.More than 300 were killed when a Pemex natural gas plant on the outskirts of Mexico City exploded in 1984.Eight years later, about 200 people were killed and 1,500 injured after a series of underground gas explosions in Guadalajara, Mexico's second biggest city. An official investigation found Pemex was partly to blame.Alberto Islas, a security analyst at consultancy Risk Evaluation, said the explosion at the Pemex offices was another blot against the company's safety record.\"We've seen this time and again at Pemex. They don't have a well-integrated policy,\" Islas said, noting it would probably take several hours before investigators would be able to determine the cause of the explosion.Pemex, a symbol of Mexican self-sufficiency since the oil industry was nationalized in 1938, has been held back by inefficiency and corruption and by the burden it shoulders of providing about a third of federal tax revenues.Pena Nieto has pledged to open up the company to more private investment to improve its performance.Reuters"]},{"x":0.0751502235021348,"y":0.152244759792206,"no_docs":8,"words":[{"prob":7.41068169542312e-05,"word":"city"},{"prob":2.08262448864599e-05,"word":"pm"},{"prob":2.08262448864599e-05,"word":"centre"},{"prob":4.66223115278484e-05,"word":"de"},{"prob":0.000253741384055215,"word":"open"},{"prob":0.00035715309303344,"word":"century"},{"prob":2.08262448864599e-05,"word":"bridge"}],"docs":["Travel EssentialsWhy go now?The Argentinian capital is at its best during the first months of the year, basking in high-summer temperatures that foster a merry, near-carnival atmosphere. This will play out from 9 to 17 February in the shape of the annual Festival Shakespeare Buenos Aires \u2013 a celebration of Britain's revered playwright (various venues; ).festivalshakespeare.com.arTouch downOnly British Airways (0844 493 0787; ) flies direct from the UK, with a daily non-stop from Heathrow. Air Europa (0871 423 0717; ) flies from Gatwick via Madrid; American Airlines (0844 499 7300; ) flies from Heathrow via Miami.ba.comaireuropa.comamericanairlines.co.ukEzeiza airport (00 54 11 54806111; ) is 14 miles south-west of the city. Manuel Tienda Leon (00 54 11 4314 3636; ) operates a bus transfer from the airport at least once every hour, fare 75 pesos (A$75/\u00a39.60). It takes 45 minutes to the main drop-off point at 1299 Avenida Eduardo Madero (1). The firm also offers private cars for A$295 (\u00a338), bookable online. Taxis take 40 minutes and cost about A$120 (\u00a315).aa2000.com.artiendaleon.com.arGet your bearingsBuenos Aires spreads out on the south-west bank of the River Plate as it nears its estuary. It exists as a series of distinct districts: Monserrat and San Nicolas at its heart, the newly gentrified docklands of Puerto Madero to the east, historic San Telmo, and the traditionally working-class La Boca, directly south of the centre. North of San Nicolas, the gilded barrios of Retiro, Recoleta and Palermo swell with parks, style and quiet affluence.Despite its size, Buenos Aires is easily explored on its excellent Subte underground system (). There are six lines \u2013 flat fare A$2.50 (32p).metrovias.com.arSan Nicolas has a tourist office (2) at Calle Florida 100 (00 54 11 4313 0187; ) \u2013 while Puerto Madero (3) has another at Avenida Alicia Moreau de Justo 200 (00 54 11 4315 4265). Both are open daily 9am-6pm.bue.gov.arCheck inHotel Boca (4) is themed around the city's most eulogised football team, Boca Juniors \u2013 though, confusingly, it is found at Calle Tacuari 243 in Monserrat. Double rooms from US$133 (\u00a3101), with breakfast (0054 11 4590 8540; ).hotelbocajuniors.comThe boutique Aspen Square Hotel (5) sits close to the bars of Palermo Soho at Calle Thames 2313 (00 54 11 4776 1711; ). Doubles from US$115 (\u00a372), room only.aspensquare.com.arAnd the Meli\u00e1 Recoleta Plaza (6) is a five-star at Calle Posadas 1557 in Recoleta \u2013 doubles with breakfast from US$224 (\u00a3140) (00 54 11 5353 4000; ).melia-boutique -recoleta-plaza.com\u00a0Day OneTake a hikeBegin at the core of the city, in the Plaza de Mayo (7). Note the Cabildo (8), in the south-west corner of the square at Calle Bolivar 65, the seat of Spanish colonial power. Whitewashed and elegant, it is a foil for the Casa Rosada (9), at the plaza's east end which houses the Argentinian president's office, from where Eva Per\u00f3n made her quasi-religious balcony appearances.Leave the plaza at its south-east corner, passing the fenced-off Parque Col\u00f3n (10), with its Christopher Columbus statue. Turn south on Avenida Ingeniero Huergo \u2013 noting the Thirties bulk of the Edificio Libertador (11), the Ministry of Defence, on your right \u2013 then east on to Calle Azucena Villaflor and into Puerto Madero. The swing bridge, Puente de la Mujer (12), a 2001 vision in white, is visible along Calle Juana Manuela Gorriti.Lunch on the runContinue through the Puerto Madero docks. Try a steak sandwich \u2013 about A$30 (\u00a33.75) \u2013 from the food trucks (13) at the end of Avenida Dr Trist\u00e1n Ach\u00e1val Rodriguez.Window shoppingRunning north to south between Plaza San Mart\u00edn (14) in Retiro and Avenida de Mayo in Monserrat, Calle Florida is the city's key retail drag. This pedestrianised strip includes Galer\u00edas Pacifico (15) at No 753 \u2013 a Beaux Arts arcade, dating to 1889, that hosts more than 150 stores (00 54 11 5555 5110; ). The cross-street, Avenida Corrientes, is also known for its bookshops, such as Librer\u00eda Hern\u00e1ndez (16) at No 1436 (00 54 11 4372 7845; ).galerias pacifico.com.arlibreria hernandez.comThe Palermo district is festooned with modish fashion outlets such as men's clothing store Bolivia (17) at Calle Gurruchaga 1581 (00 54 11 4832 6284; ).boliviapara todos.com.arTake a rideThough richly evocative, Boca has a reputation for street crime. Hail a (yellow and black) Radio Taxi to see the key sights: Caminito (18), the iconic street painted by artist Benito Martin in the Fifties, and La Bombonera (19), the cauldron-stadium home of Boca Juniors (Calle Brandsen 805; 00 54 11 5777 1212; ).bocajuniors.com.arAlternatively, Buenos Tours (00 54 11 3221 1048; buenos tours.com) has a three-hour tour of Boca and San Telmo with local guides (pick-ups from your hotel; daily 9.30am, 2.30pm; US$55/\u00a334).An aperitifPalermo Soho buzzes at night, especially Plaza Serrano. Mundo Bizarro (20) at No 1222 (00 54 11 4773 1967; ), is noted for cocktails (A$30, \u00a33.75).mundobizarro bar.comDining with the localsBA is famous for its parrillas \u2013 grills selling fine Argentinian beef. Desnivel (21) is a budget option at Calle Defensa 855 in San Telmo (00 54 11 4300 9081), with steaks from A$25 (\u00a33). La Lorenza (22) is one of a cluster of splendid parrillas in Recoleta (Calle Junin 1721; 00 54 11 4803 9791; ) \u2013 steaks from A$50 (\u00a36).la-lorenza.com.arVegetarians may prefer Puerto Madero, where Bice (23) is a chic Italian at Avenida Alicia Moreau de Justo 192 (00 54 11 4315 6216; ). Pasta dishes from A$120 (\u00a315).bicebuenosaires.com.ar\u00a0Day TwoSunday morning: go to churchPitched on the corner of Plaza de Mayo (7) at Calle San Mart\u00edn 27, Catedral Metropolitana (24) (00 54 11 4331 2845; ) is an oddly secular structure, lost behind a Neoclassical fa\u00e7ade (open 7.30am-6.30pm, weekends 9am-7pm; Sunday services at 10am, 11.30am, 1pm and 6pm). Rather prettier, the Basilica Nuestra Se\u00f1ora del Pilar (25) (00 54 11 4806 2209; ) is a Jesuit landmark, dating to 1732, at Calle Jun\u00edn 1904 in Recoleta. You can visit on Sunday morning only if you attend one of the services, at 8.30am, 10am or 11am. Otherwise, it opens 2.30-6.15pm (10.30am-6.15pm on other days).catedral buenosaires.org.arbasilica delpilar.org.arA walk in the parkNear the Basilica (25), the Cementerio de la Recoleta (26) at Calle Jun\u00edn 1760 (), is a lovely spot for a morning stroll. A necropolis of narrow avenues and mournful trees \u2013 open daily 7am-5.45pm (free) \u2013 it contains the tombs of the national elite. Evita's family vault, well signposted, is marked, simply, \"Familia Duarte\".cemente riorecoleta.com.arOut to brunchHead to Caf\u00e9 Tortoni (27), a city legend at Avenida de Mayo 825 (00 54 11 4342 4328; ). This coffee salon, with its stained-glass interior, still recalls its 1858 origins.cafetortoni.com.arCultural afternoonPuerto Madero has the hot spot of the Colecci\u00f3n de Arte Amalia Lacroze de Fortabat (28) at Calle Olga Cossettini 141 (00 54 11 4310 6600; ; A$35/\u00a34.50). Open daily noon-9pm except Monday, this striking gallery was built in 2008 to showcase 20th-century Argentinian art, as well as pieces by Klimt, Dal\u00ed and Rodin. The Museo de Arte Latinamericano (29) at Avenida Figueroa Alcorta 3415 in Palermo (00 54 11 4808 6500; ; A$32/\u00a34) also shines a spotlight on Latin art in the 20th century.coleccionfortabat.org.armalba.org.arIt is worth visiting the Teatro Col\u00f3n (30) at Rua Cerrito 628 in San Nicolas too. The spiritual home of Argentinian ballet and opera boasts an ornate auditorium that holds 3,500 people.Icing on the cakeTango is Argentina's obsession. Caf\u00e9 Tortoni (27) puts on nightly displays; (usually at 8.30pm and 10.30pm on Sun) from A$70 (\u00a39). The Esquina Carlos Gardel (31) \u2013 named after the tango composer \u2013 also stages shows, nightly at 10.30pm, at Calle Carlos Gardel 3200, in the Abasto district. Tango-only tickets from US$96 (\u00a359); with dinner from US$140 (\u00a386) (00 54 11 4867 6363; ).esquina carlosgardel.com.ar","You can hear them Uptown, Midtown, Downtown: in the rush-hour snarl round Columbus Circle, at the foot of the Empire State off 5th, and down by the half-built World Trade Center tower, as restive drivers navigate the barriers surrounding the construction site.They are car horns, blaring at street corners and in the middle of wide avenues all across Manhattan (and beyond, in Brooklyn and Queens). For the most part, they\u2019re illegal. Local laws threaten drivers in the city with a $350 fine lest they unnecessarily thrust their palms against the steering wheel.But now, though the law remains in place, the city appears to be signalling defeat, with New York\u2019s Department for Transportation moving to pull down all of its \u201cDon\u2019t Honk\u201d signs. After a two-and-a-half decade run, none will be visible by the end of the year.Officials say they want to rid the streets of signs that are routinely ignored, according to the New York Times, which first reported the move. The Department for Transportation, whose figures indicate that complaints to a freephone number about unnecessary honking have declined more than 60 per cent since 2008 said: \u201cThere are 1.3 million signs on New York\u2019s streets - that\u2019s enough to provide one for every man, woman and child in the Bronx.\"The added: \"For the first time in generations we are systematically updating our streets to eliminate the signs that don\u2019t work and improve the signs we actually need. While honking signs have been around for decades, there\u2019s no sign that they do anything except add clutter to our streets.\u201dCritics, meanwhile, have seized on the subtext: the city seems to be saying, \u201cwe give up.\u201dIt was only in October that taxi drivers - blamed by many New Yorkers for the most repeat offenses, though a simple stroll down a busy avenue would show that ordinary residents are hardly beyond reproach - were warned to tone it down.Reportedly spurred on by a resident irked by the incessant din, the head of the City\u2019s Taxi and Limousine Commission, David Yassky, shot off a text message to New York\u2019s 13,000 tax drivers, advising them that \u201chonking is against the law except when warning of imminent danger.\u201dThe counter view, put forward by the American Automobile Association (AAA) in New York, is more romantic\u00a0 \u201cBlowing the horn is a fact of life, part of the fabric and culture of the city,\u201d Robert Sinclair Jr, a AAA spokesman, told the . \u201cIf it weren\u2019t there, people would wonder.\u201dNew York Times","Jim Wallwork was often described as the first allied serviceman to set foot on French soil on D-Day. It was a description that caused him some mirth since, after crash-landing his Horsa glider next to the Caen bridge 20 minutes into 6 June 1944, he was thrown head-first through the Perspex windscreen and hit French soil on his belly. Staff-Sergeant Wallwork, of the army's Glider Pilot Regiment, was flying the first of six Horsas carrying soldiers of D Company 2nd Battalion Oxford and Buckinghamshire Light Infantry in Operation Deadstick to capture two key bridges.Control of the Caen and Orne bridges was vital, to prevent Panzers from reaching the beaches where allied forces would land a few hours later but also to create a supply route for the 6th Airborne Division. Wallwork received the Distinguished Flying Medal for the daring operation, in which six gliders, each carrying around 30 soldiers, were towed by \"tugs\" \u2013 Halifax bombers \u2013 before breaking free and gliding to their targets under cover of darkness. \"It was one of the most outstanding flying achievements of the war,\" said Air Chief Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory.Despite injuries to his head and knee, Wallwork dragged his co-pilot Sgt Johnnie Ainsworth from the wrecked cockpit and carried ammunition for the men of the Ox &amp; Bucks, led by Major John Howard and with their faces blackened, as they stormed the Caen bridge and captured it within minutes. The bridge was later renamed Pegasus in honour of the Glider Pilot Regiment, whose emblem was the mythological winged horse and whose motto was Nihil est impossibilis (nothing is impossible). The Ranville bridge over the River Orne was renamed the Horsa bridge in memory of the gliders, built by Airspeed in Hampshire. The operation was immortalised in the 1962 film The Longest Day.Wallwork, who emigrated to Canada after the war and spent the rest of his life there, always played down his role as first man on the ground on D-Day. \"France was a very busy place that night,\" he said. \"Our only claim to fame is not that we were the first to arrive, but that we were the first to fire a shot.\" Two of the men in the coup de main operation were killed and Wallwork's own injuries got worse as the adrenalin receded. \"By daylight my legs had seized. I ended up at Ronkswood Hospital in Worcester.\"But soon he was taking part in Operation Market Garden and flying another Horsa glider at Arnhem in September before wielding a rifle himself as an infantryman west of the Arnhem bridge. \"We held one end of the bridge and the Germans held the other \u2013 and they wouldn't give up,\" he recalled. \"Not too sporting of them.\"The following March he took part in Operation Varsity, flying a bigger glider, a Hamilcar, to transport a 17-pounder anti-tank gun to troops crossing the Rhine in the final push to Berlin. Again, he found himself fighting on the ground before being ordered back home as the Germans retreated. \"It was short, sharp and a good clean way to go to war,\" he recalled.James Wallwork was born in Salford in 1919, the only child of Harold Wallwork, an artillery sergeant in the Great War, and Alice. He attended Salford Grammar School, where he was a useful rugby player and had the nickname \"Handsome Jim\". He joined the army as war clouds gathered: \"You could smell it coming ... I joined the war to cover myself with glory, and medals and free beer for the duration, surrounded by adoring females.\"By May 1942 he was training with the newly formed Glider Pilot Regiment, part of the army but trained by the RAF, not always an amicable arrangement. After training in North Africa he flew a commando-carrying glider behind enemy lines during Operation Husky, the allied invasion of Sicily in 1943, where bad weather and mistimed release by \"tug pilots\" led to the loss of almost a third of more than 130 British gliders, most of them into the sea. Wallwork narrowly reached his target, where he met heavy resistance: \"Luckily, the Italians were rotten shots.\"Back in England he began training at RAF Tarrant Rushton in Dorset for a secret mission. A few days before D-Day they were told their objectives, the two Normandy bridges. A Halifax bomber towed Horsa No 1 (nicknamed Lady Irene) from Tarrant Rushton at 22.45 hours on 5 June 1944, flown by Wallwork and Ainsworth. Behind them were 30 fighting men with blackened faces, including Major Howard. \"Howard encouraged the men to sing so that none got airsick,\" Wallwork recalled. \"It was a midnight crossing in a rugby dressing-room atmosphere with songs and jokes. At 6,000 feet, when we heard 'cast off' [from the tug], the singing stopped and that was when six Horsas tiptoed quietly into two little fields in Normandy and released 180 fighting men ... to give the German garrison the surprise of their lives. I could see it all, the river and the canal like strips of silver in the moonlight.\"Wallwork hit the ground at 95mph and ploughed through barbed wire defences before the cockpit collapsed and the glider ended up on an embankment closer to the Caen bridge than he or the troops could have dreamed of. After the bridge was secured, Howard and his men held it until the arrival of Lord Lovat and his commandos, led across the bridge by his personal piper, Bill Millin. Wallwork helped, he said, to \"liberate the first building in France\" the local caf\u00e9 whose owner Georges Gondr\u00e9e appeared with glasses of champagne.Wallwork attended several reunions at the Pegasus bridge, including 2004, when Prince Charles unveiled a replica Horsa at the site. Wallwork also donated his DFM to the D-Day museum there. \"I thought it would be better in the museum than in the top drawer of my dresser under my socks.\"Wallwork emigrated to Canada in 1957, where he became a salesman and later a livestock farmer. He died in hospital after falling ill last month.James Harley Wallwork, glider pilot, salesman and livestock farmer: born Salford 21 October 1919: married 1945 Dorothy Colgate (two daughters, and one son deceased), 1977 Genevieve O'Donnell; died White Rock, British Columbia, Canada 24 January 2013.","Nasa has launched the first of its new generation of communication satellites to support the international space station and the Hubble Space Telescope.The Atlas 5 was sent into space this week and is the first of 13 unmanned rockets to be launched into orbit.\u00a0","Amidst the same appalling weather and poor visibility that has hung over each of The Shard\u2019s many grand openings, Boris Johnson has officially opened the observation deck at Western Europe\u2019s tallest building to the public.Cutting a ribbon 244 metres above London\u2019s seemingly permanently wet pavements, the Mayor was joined in the greying gloom by the building\u2019s architect Renzo Piano, who claimed The Shard, which continues to divide opinion just as fiercely as it divides the London skyline, is \u201cmagic for a number of reasons.\u201d\"First, because it's in London, second, because it's so tall, and third, because this building is a part of London. It's a sense of London.\"It's sad when London is sad, it's joyful when London is brilliant and joyful.\"Mr Johnson described the building as \"a most amazing place\".He said: \"I don't think there's anything in London like this.\"It's the closest thing to being in an airplane and looking down on London. But you can walk around, you've got complete stability.\"You can see all the bends in the river, you can see my office, you can see Buckingham Palace, you can see the whole thing for 40 miles around.\"It is certainly true that it is the first \u2018public\u2019 viewing gallery over London. All its other similar vantage points are ensconced in expensive bars and restaurants, and considerably lower down. That said, a couple of gin and tonics, at say, Galvin at Windows, on the roof of the Park Lane Hilton won\u2019t set you back much more than the Shard\u2019s \u00a324.95 ticket price (\u00a318.95 for children), which is significantly more than the Eiffel Tower, the Empire State Building, and every other comparable attraction anywhere in the world.But that hasn\u2019t stopped the 4,800 people who have paid admission for today. The decks are sold out for the next several weeks.On a clear day, visitors will be able to enjoy a 360-degree view of the capital's skyline, from a platform almost twice the height of any other in the city.With the help of specially-designed telescopes, they should be able to pick out London's landmarks in the streets below.Visitors to the attraction - on floors 68, 69 and 72 - are whisked up in two high-speed lifts in around 60 seconds.","Prominent atheist professor Richard Dawkins described religion as \u201credundant and irrelevant\u201d as he took on the former Archbishop of Canterbury in a debate.Speaking at the Cambridge Union debating society, Prof Dawkins argued that religion hindered scientific endeavour by \"peddling false explanations\".Dr Rowan Williams offered a counter-argument, saying that religion undoubtedly had a place in the 21st century and that the issue was not whether it should exist, but what our attitude towards it should be.He added that modern attitudes towards human rights had their foundations in religious traditions.The pair were part of a debate last night on the proposition that \"religion has no place in the 21st Century\", in front of an audience of about 800, who packed the famous 200-year-old university debating club's chambers.It was religion that turned out to be the winner - at the end of the debate, the house voted to reject the proposition, stating that it did believe religion had a place in the 21st century.Early in his address, Prof Dawkins made a provocative comparison between Christian and Islamic traditions, describing himself as a \"cultural Anglican\".\"I'm grateful, by the way, to be a cultural Anglican when you think of the competition,\" he added.\"If I were a cultural Muslim, I would have something to say about that faith's appalling attitude to women and various other moral points.\"Stressing that his central concern was simply whether religion was true, he summed up his argument by describing religion as a \"cop-out\".\"It is a betrayal of the intellect, a betrayal of all that's best about what makes us human,\" he said.\"It's a phony substitute for an explanation, which seems to answer the question until you examine it and realise that it does no such thing.\"He added that in the scientific world, religion was a \"pernicious charlatan\".\"It peddles false explanations where real explanations could have been offered, false explanations that get in the way of the enterprise of discovering real explanations,\" he said.In his address, Lord Williams said: \"Religion has always been a matter of community building, a matter of building relations of compassion, fellow-feeling and, dare I say it, inclusion.\"The notion that religious commitment can be purely a private matter is one that runs against the grain of religious history.\"Lord Williams added that respect for human life and equality was inherent in all organised religion.\"The very concept of human rights has profound religious roots,\" he added.\"The convention of human rights would not be what it is were it not for the history of philosophical religious debate.\"Philosopher professor Tariq Ramadan, Andrew Copson, chief executive of the British Humanist Association and Douglas Murray, founder of the Centre for Social Cohesion, also took part.PA","At its peak at the end of the 16th Century, the Ottoman Empire ruled over parts of North Africa, Asia and Europe, even reaching the outskirts of Vienna. Today's Turkey is much smaller but it has not forgotten its imperial past.At its peak at the end of the 16th Century, the Ottoman Empire ruled over parts of North Africa, Asia and Europe, even reaching the outskirts of Vienna. Today's Turkey is much smaller but it has not forgotten its imperial past.For years, Turkey's international prominence has been growing, fuelled by a booming economy and an increasing influence over the Middle East. This has been accompanied by a surge of nationalism and swelling desire to reclaim Turkey's historic past \u2013 literally.Turkey has been demanding some of the most important museums in the world send back artefacts originating in what today is Turkey or in other territories of the Ottoman Empire. To achieve this, Turkish museums and authorities have refused to lend their possessions to international exhibitions until its own claims have been fulfilled. Ankara has even threatened to suspend foreign archaeologists' permits to work on Turkish sites.The Louvre in Paris, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Pergamon in Berlin are among victims of these museum wars.The most recent episode is due to begin this week when Turkish lawyers and activists, supported by the government, will file a lawsuit in the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).Their goal: getting back several sculptures originating in the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus, now housed in the British Museum. The Mausoleum, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, was built in today's Bodrum in southwest Turkey.","Travel EssentialsWhy go now?Between now and Easter, this stylish city at the foot of the Alps is welcoming, uncrowded and accessible, thanks to the frequent ski flights. Turin is much more than a gateway to the mountains: it is one of Italy's great cities, offering visitors a spectrum of\u00a0indulgence from high culture to rich chocolate.Touch downBritish Airways (0844 493 0787; ) and easyJet (0843 104 5000; ) compete from Gatwick, while Ryanair (0871 246 0000; ) flies from Stansted. Turin airport is 16km north-east of the city at Caselle. The fastest and cheapest way in is by train, which leaves every half-hour from the airport station and costs \u20ac3.70. Buy a ticket and cancel it at the platform entrance before boarding the train. The journey takes only 20 minutes to Stazione Dora (1) \u2013 a good 15 minutes' walk from the centre. Your rail ticket entitles you to transfer to one city bus service within 70 minutes \u2013 revalidate it on boarding.ba.comeasyJet.comryanair.comThe Sadem airport bus departs roughly every 15 minutes, with a fare of \u20ac6.50 if you buy a ticket in advance in the arrivals hall \u2013 or \u20ac7.50 if you pay the driver. The journey serves Porta Susa station (2), for the west of the city centre, and terminates at Porta Nuova station (3) about 45 minutes after leaving the airport. All three stations are undergoing substantial engineering work.A taxi should cost \u20ac30 to most city- centre destinations.Get your bearingsThe city centre is contained within the Dora river to the north and the Po river to the east. A combination of narrow streets based on the original Roman grid, sliced through by broad avenues, makes Turin easy to navigate \u2013 as does the ever-visible wall of the Alps to the north. The city's main squares are Piazza Castello (4), an odd-shaped space part-filled with the ungainly Palazzo Madama; Piazza San Carlo (5), right in the middle; and Piazza Vittorio Veneto (6), which opens out to the Po. You can hardly move for tourist offices (00 39 011 535 181; ). The main bureau at Porta Nuova station (3) is temporarily shut for refurbishment, so visit instead the office on Via Milano (7) or the kiosk on Via Giuseppe Verdi (8). Standard daily opening is 9am-7pm.turismotorino.orgCheck inTurin vies with Milan as northern Italy's leading business city. Consequently, it has lots of hotels, and an oversupply of beds at weekends \u2013 including at two particularly characterful and comfortable three-stars that offer outstanding value; rates include breakfast and the \u20ac2.30 per person, per night city tax.The most central is the Hotel Dogano Vecchia (9) at Via Corte d'Appello 4 (00 39 011 436 6752; ), an atmospheric old mansion where Mozart stayed in 1771 during one of his many European tours. Today, it feels in places as though the last Grand Tourist has only just checked out. Double rooms are in three grades, with those overlooking the street at \u20ac65; standard doubles are \u20ac85, and superior rooms \u20ac95.hoteldoganovecchia.comThe Albergo Dock Milano (10), close to Porta Susa station at Via Cernaia 46 (00 39 011 562 2622; ), is rather more basic \u2013 reflected in a standard double rate at weekends of just \u20ac56.hoteldockmilano.it\u00a0Day OneTake a hikeThe primary city of the House of Savoy, and the first capital of a united Italy, has some outstanding civic architecture \u2013 best appreciated with a stroll through the centre with pauses for coffee or hot chocolate. Start at the equestrian statue of Emanuele Filiberto in Piazza San Carlo (5), honouring the duke who made Turin capital of the Duchy of Savoy in 1563. Walk north between the chic boutiques flanking Via Roma to Piazza Castello (4). On the right is the velvet embrace of Baratti &amp; Milano (11) awaits; order an espresso and stand at the counter to enjoy the opulence and sense of history for just \u20ac1.10. Glimpse the adjacent Galleria Subalpina, then walk along Via Po \u2013 a handsomely porticoed street, lined with shops (with little display cases in the pillars) and numerous caf\u00e9s \u2013 such as Ciocco &amp; Lata (12) at number 32 and Caffe Vittorio Veneto (13) just where the street opens up into the broad, cobbled piazza. Ahead stands the 19th-century church of Gran Madre di Dio (14), built to imitate the Pantheon \u2013 and featured in the film The Italian Job. Cross the river and climb the steps for a view north towards the Alps.Take a viewFor an even better perspective, climb the steep hill, the Monte di Cappuccini, just south. The church and convent of Santa Maria (15) stands at the top, while just below is a museum celebrating the mountains \u2013 and Turin as venue of the 2006 Winter Olympics.Out to lunchCross the river back to the centre, and find the Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 Lutece (16) \u2013 whose tables spill into the wide, green Piazza Carlina (officially known as Carlo Emanuele II). This rustic brasserie (00 39 011 887 644; ) has salads and pasta with a Gallic twist.societe-lutece.itCultural afternoonClose by, at Via Accademia delle Scienze 6, the Museo Egizio (17) (00 39 011 561 7776; ) fills\u00a0a 17th-century palazzo that was once a Jesuit college. Today, it is an old-school museum brimming with Egyptian artefacts. Renovations make some of the collection inaccessible, but current highlights include a statue of Tutankhamun with the god, Amun, and a hierarchy of sarcophagi. Open from 8.30am to 7.30pm daily except Monday, \u20ac7.50 (free on your birthday).museoegizio.orgWindow shoppingVia Roma and Via Garibaldi are the main shopping streets, but a more spectacular retail offering takes place at Porta Palazzo (18), a Roman gate that gives its name to a sprawling market.An aperitifThe cosiest bar in town is probably the Caff\u00e8-Vini Emilio Ranzini (19) at Via Porta Palatina 9g (00 39 011 765 0477), which serves wine and elaborate snacks \u2013 but only until 5pm on Saturday (9.30am-8.30pm Mon-Fri); a proper Turin aperitivo experience. Any later, and you should visit the retro Caff\u00e9 Nazionale (20) at Via Po 18 (00 39 011 882 140) for an apericena \u2013 order a glass of vermouth, the local drink, and tuck into the buffet, all for \u20ac7.Dining with the localsRistorante Pizzeria Alla Mole (21) at Via Verdi 10 serves simple but delicious and exceptionally good value set meals costing as little as \u20ac7. The price includes a pizza, a glass of beer or wine; and an espresso to round off the feast. Opens evenings except Sunday from 7pm (and lunch from Monday to\u00a0Friday).Tre Galline (22) at Via Bellezia 37 (00 39 011 436 6553; ) serves Piedmontese specialities such as bollito misto, a rich stew. It opens from 7.45pm for dinner, except Sundays, and on Saturdays for lunch.3galline.it\u00a0Day TwoSunday morning: go to churchStart at the Duomo (23), an austere cathedral (open 8am-12.30pm and 3-7pm) with a remarkable relic: the Shroud of Turin, which some say was used to wrap the body of Christ. The cloth is kept out of sight in a climate-controlled casket, but the story unfolds at the fascinating Museo della Sindone (24) at Via San Domenico 28 (00\u00a039 011 436 5832; ; 9am-noon and 3-7pm daily, \u20ac6) \u2013 which explains the context and conflicting theories of the shroud. The adjacent Santo Sudario church has a replica of the shroud on show behind the altar.sindone.orgFor a more elaborate place of worship, plunge into the Baroque splendour of the Santuario della Consolata (25) on the piazza of the same name (00 39 011 483 6111; ). Chapels dripping with ornamentation orbit around an oval nave.laconsolata.orgOut to brunchDirectly opposite, the Caff\u00e8 Cioccolateria Al Bicerin (26) on the south side of the Piazza del Consolata (00 39 011 436 9325; ; 8.30am-7.30pm daily except Weds) is a Torinese treasure dating from 1763. This tiny caf\u00e9 is named for the city's signature drink: the bicerin (\u20ac5) is served in a wine glass, and comprises an intense, dark mix of coffee and hot chocolate beneath a layer of cream that slowly melts as you sip. While you indulge, admire the original 18th-century panelling and marble tables.bicerin.itA walk in the parkTurin boasts plenty of greenery \u2013 starting in the city centre. From the Porta Palatina (27) , wander east past the remains of a Roman amphitheatre (28) through the Giardini Reali. Your target, at the far end, is the astonishing, 167m Mole Antonelliana (29) \u2013 a 19th-century folly resembling an extruded pyramid.Take a ride ...\u2026 in a glass elevator through thin air at the Mole Antonelliana (29) at Via Montebello 20 (00 39 011 813 8560; ). In one minute flat it takes you from the basement through the vast interior to a hole in the ceiling and the viewing platform. A \u20ac12 ticket includes the intriguing National Museum of Cinema that fills the ground floor and upper chambers; open 9am-8pm daily except Mondays (Saturdays to 11pm).museonazionaledelcinema.orgIcing on the cakeTurin's passionate affair with cocoa began centuries ago, and today is indulged most exquisitely at Caffe Olsen (30) at Via Sant'Agostino 4 (00 39 011 436 1573; 9.30am-7pm) and Guido Gobino (31) at Via Lagrange 1 (00 39 011 566 0707; 10am-8pm) \u2013 either of which\u00a0will transform your appreciation of\u00a0chocolate."]},{"x":0.58270188656601,"y":0,"no_docs":37,"words":[{"prob":7.46969474534102e-05,"word":"french"},{"prob":9.2773210923408e-05,"word":"mali"},{"prob":2.88005196191901e-05,"word":"president"},{"prob":1.27206601122028e-05,"word":"today"},{"prob":0.000135711306022578,"word":"troops"},{"prob":1.27206601122028e-05,"word":"town"},{"prob":1.27206601122028e-05,"word":"military"}],"docs":["Islamist militants were holding\u00a0 up to 41 Western gas engineers at a remote BP site in Algeria today, deepening fears that the conflict in Mali could unleash an anti-Western war across the deserts of northern Africa.One Briton and a Frenchman were reported to have been killed in the attack near the Libyan border and an unknown number of workers, including several Britons and an Irishman, were apparently taken hostage. Sixty heavily armed raiders attacked the gas field in a convoy of pick-up trucks.The head of a French company providing catering services at the site said tonight:\u00a0 \u201cAll the Western workers were taken away and tied up \u2026 They are being kept apart and not allowed to move.\u201d Reports last night suggested that the group had offered to free the captives if Algeria released 100 Islamists in its jails and drove them to the border with Mali. Algeria, which has a history of taking a hard line in situations such as this, ruled out negotiations.The Interior Minister, Daho Ould Kablia, was quoted as saying: \u201cThe Algerian authorities will not\u00a0 respond to the demands of the terrorists and will not negotiate.\u201dAlgerian officials said that the raiders, surrounded by its army, were threatening to blow up the site and their captives if their demands were not met. The group of 41 hostages, including 13 Norwegians, seven Americans, several Japanese and British nationals, were seized early yesterday. More than 300 Algerian workers were also captured but later released unharmed.A spokesman for BP said: \u201cThe site was attacked and occupied by a group of unidentified armed people at about 5am UK time. Contact with the site is extremely difficult but we understand that armed individuals are still occupying the site.\u201dReports suggested that the raiders spoke Arabic with \u201cstrong Libyan\u00a0 accents\u201d. A group called the Katibat Moulathamine, or \u201cMasked Brigade\u201d, told Mauritanian radio the attack was a \u201cpunishment\u201d for Algeria\u2019s decision to permit French warplanes to use its airspace to attack Malian rebels.The Algerian government said the raiders had travelled 600 miles through the Sahara desert from Mali, where French troops were engaged today in the first ground fighting of their six-day-old intervention against Islamist insurgents.\u00a0Special forces were reported to be fighting house-to-house in the small town of Diabaly, north of the capital Bamako, which was captured on Monday.The French Defence Minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, said the town was held by 1,300 fighters from the multinational Al-Qa\u2019ida in the Islamic Maghreb (Aqim) faction. He said they were \u201cthe toughest, the most fanatical, the best organised, the most determined and best armed\u201d of the three, loosely allied Islamist groups which overran Mali\u2019s vast, northern desert region last year.For a sixth day, French warplanes and helicopters pounded the rebels, who attempted last week to break through the relatively narrow \u201cwaist\u201d of Mali into the fertile and populous south, where 90 per cent of the population of 14.5 million lives.Today, a column of 30 French armoured trucks and light tanks moved into holding positions protecting Niger river crossings south of Diabaly. This freed special forces units to move forward to test Islamist resistance in the town itself.French strategy is to hold the line until a promised 3,500-strong West African force assembles. President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande said he hoped his ground troops could give way to the African contingent \u201cwithin days or weeks\u201d. The first African soldiers are expected to reach Mali tomorrow but it may be months before they are ready to fight.Meanwhile, the islamist raid in south-eastern Algeria confirms widespread fears that the Malian conflict could spread across the immense, porous national frontiers of the Sahara and Sahel region stretching from Mauritania to Libya.Algerian press reports, quoting interior ministry sources, said the raiders initially tried to hijack a bus taking Western workers to the airport. They were fought off after they killed two people, including a Briton, it was claimed.The Islamist ringleader: Belmokhtar 'the uncatchable'The attack on BP's Algeria gas field is believed to be the work of one of the most elusive and blood-stained Islamists in North Africa.Mokhtar Belmokhtar, known as \"the uncatchable\", was until last year a commander of al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb, the most feared of the three Islamist groups that threaten to overrun Mali. In his first-ever public appearance last month, he posted online a video in which he said he had split from Aqim and started his own movement in neighbouring Niger called \"Signatories in Blood\".Belmokhtar is also known as \"Bellaouar\", \"Khaled Abou Abass\" and \"the One-Eyed Man\". Born in Gharda\u00efa, Algeria, about 50 years ago, he volunteered to fight in Afghanistan in 1991.Since his return to North Africa in 1993, he has been implicated in a dozen or more attacks on Westerners, including the murder of four Frenchmen in Mauritania in December 2007 and the murder of two Swiss, a Briton and a German woman in January 2009.Last July, he was said to have been killed fighting a rival Malian group which wants to create an independent, secular Tuareg state in the Sahara. The claim proved exaggerated and the other rebels have since been driven out of Mali.To finance his activities, especially arms purchases, Belmokhtar is believed to have ransomed some of his previous Western hostages for millions of pounds.The Algerian interior ministry said yesterday that he had attacked the BP gas field with 20 militants who were \"not from any neighbouring country\".How they managed to reach southern Algeria undetected from Belmokhtar's new base in Niger \u2013 1,000km away \u2013 is a mystery.","Indonesia's army deployed rubber boats in the capital's business district today to rescue people trapped in floods that inundated much of the city of 14 million people. The president was pictured standing in water up to his shins \u2014 his trousers rolled up \u2014 at the palace waiting for the arrival of Argentina's leader on a state visit.The floods were the most widespread to hit\u00a0Jakarta\u00a0in recent memory. Authorities said at least four people were killed and 20,000 evacuated. Many more homes were inundated following around five hours of heavy overnight rain that coursed through rivers already swollen by a long monsoon season.Few areas in the city were spared, from wealthy suburbs to riverside slums and gleaming downtown business blocks. Offices and schools were deserted and traffic ground to a halt. The international airport was operating normally, but travelers were finding it hard to get there.\"This is horrible,\" said Yanitha Damayanti, a bank teller stranded downtown. \"For the first time in my life, downtown\u00a0Jakarta\u00a0has flooded.\"The city has long been prone to floods, but successive governments have done little to mitigate the threat.Deforestation in the hills to the south of the city, chaotic planning and the rubbish that clogs the hundreds of rivers and waterways that crisscross the city are some of the factors behind the floods. The city's vulnerability exposes the country's poor infrastructure even as it has posted impressive economic growth in recent years.President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and the country's foreign minister were pictured standing in water up to their shins at the presidential palace waiting for the arrival of Argentina's President Christina Kirchner, who is on a state visit. The meeting of the two leaders apparently went ahead.\"I have no problem with the palace being flooded, \"Yudhoyono said. \"The most important thing is the people are protected.\"In some places, water levels were up to 2 meters (6 1/2 feet) high. Seen from above, the main road through the heart of the city resembled a muddy river. Even as authorities struggled to rescue those trapped and provide them food and shelter, some were thinking of the economic cost.\"This is an extraordinary disaster,\" said Syamsuddin Basri. \"I had to cancel many important business deals.\"AP","Forces loyal to President Bashar Assad swept through a small farming village in central Syria this week, torching houses and shooting and stabbing residents in an attack that killed up to 106 people, including women and children, activists said today.The assault on Haswiyeh outside the city of Homs took place on Tuesday, but was only coming to light two days later as the scale of the killings became more apparent. The attacks appeared to have sectarian motives and bore a resemblance to the attack last May on the nearby village of Houla that killed 108 people and drew international condemnation of the Assad regime.The Britain-based\u00a0Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the death toll in Haswiyeh at 106, and said some of the dead were \"burnt inside their homes while other were killed with knives\" and other weapons. It added that there are reports that \"whole families were executed, one of them made up of 32 members.\"Youssef al-Homsi, an activist based in Homs, also said at least 100 people were killed in Haswiyeh. He sent The Associated Press via Skype a list of 100 names said to have been killed. In addition to whole families, the list included individual names of 15 women and 10 children.Omar Idilbi of the Local Coordination Committees activist group put the death toll at 37, but said the figure was from yesterday and that more bodies have been found since then.It was not possible to confirm the activist reports because of severe reporting restrictions in\u00a0Syria.A government official in Damascus flatly denied the reports of carnage, saying no such killings took place in the area at all. He said \"the army protects civilians and their properties,\" and accused rebels of using civilians as \"human shields. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief the media.However, the pro-government daily Al-Watan reported today that\u00a0Syrian troops advanced in the countryside of Homs \"cleansing the villages of Haswiyeh and Dweir as well as their fields\" from gunmen. It did not elaborate.Rebels and government troops are known to have clashed in the area around Haswiyeh earlier this week. Rebels still control several neighborhoods in Homs,\u00a0Syria's third-largest city, as well as other areas in the region. The city and surrounding countryside have been hit by heavy fighting since shortly after the country's crisis began in March 2011. The UN says at least 60,000 people have been killed in the conflict.The Observatory and al-Homsi said all of the dead appeared to be Sunni Muslims, suggesting that the killings may have been sectarian in nature. Al-Homsi also said locals reported that many of the attackers came from the nearby village of Mazraa, which he said is predominantly Shiite.Sunnis make the majority of\u00a0Syria's 23 million people, while Assad and most of the top officials in his regime belong to the minority Alawite sect, an off-shoot of Shiite Islam.The opposition accuses Alawite militiamen loyal to Assad of trying to carve out a breakaway enclave for themselves by driving out local Sunnis, killing entire families and threatening anybody who stays behind. They say killings in overwhelmingly Sunni villages close to Alawite communities are meant to lay the groundwork for such an enclave.An amateur video posted online showed five women surround by children as they sat on the floor describing what happened in Haswiyeh.\"They entered homes, slaughtered women and children then burnt them,\" said one of the veiled women holding a young boy. \"They slaughtered members of the same families then turned the diesel heaters on them.\"\"We did not fight and we had no gunmen. We are all workers trying to make a living,\" she said angrily. She added that some homes were robbed as the soldiers were looking for money and jewellery.Another video showed a burnt room with what appeared to be two charred bodies on the floor. A man could be heard weeping in the background. The caption says the video is from Haswiyeh.The videos appeared genuine and corresponded to other AP reporting on the events depicted.Elsewhere in\u00a0Syria, activists reported violence in different parts of the country today including fighting in the Palestinian refugee camp of Yarmouk in Damascus. The Observatory also reported air raids in the capital's suburbs, which have witnessed heavy clashes between troops and rebels in recent weeks.The Observatory and the LCC also reported clashes in the town of Beit Saham, just south of the capital and near the city's international airport, and that an air raid killed at least 15 people in the town of Kfar Nabouedeh in the central province of Hama.State-run TV said troops repelled an attack on the main airport in the eastern city of Deir el-Zour near the border with Iraq.It said clashes in the northern town of Ras al-Ayn near the Turkish border continued Thursday between rebels and members of the government-leaning Kurdish Democratic Union Party, or PYD. The Observatory said at least eight rebels and one PYD fighter were killed.AP","Fighting raged in one Mali town, airstrikes hit another and army troops raced to protect a third, on the seventh day of the French-led military intervention to wrest back Mali's north from al-Qa'ida-linked groups.Banamba, a town located only 90 miles (144 kilometers) from\u00a0Mali's capital was put on alert overnight, and a contingent of roughly 100\u00a0Malian soldiers sped there today after a reported sighting of jihadists in the vicinity, marking the closest that the extremists have come to\u00a0Mali's largest city and seat of government.France has encountered fierce resistance from the Islamist extremist groups, whose reach extends not only over a territory the size of Afghanistan in\u00a0Mali, but also as much as 600 miles (1,000 kilometers) east in Algeria, where fighters belonging to the cells in\u00a0Mali\u00a0kidnapped as many as 41 foreigners at a BP-operated plant, including Americans. They demanded the immediate end of the hostilities in\u00a0Mali, with a spokesman in\u00a0Mali, saying that \"no foreigner is safe ... our movement is now global,\" according to Oumar Ould Hamaha who spoke by telephone to The Associated Press.The first\u00a0Malian troops arrived in Banamba late yesterday, with a second group coming on today. The small town northeast of Bamako is connected by a secondary road to the garrison town of Diabaly, which was taken by Islamic extremists earlier this week, and has been the scene of intense fighting with French special forces, who continued bombardments and a land assault there today.A city official in Banamba who asked not to be named because he is not authorized to speak publicly, and who has been involved in getting the\u00a0Malian troops to defend the town, said they received reports that a rebel convoy had left Diabaly on the road connecting it to Banamba.\"We don't have a (military) base here, we have no defenses. So the military has come to secure the town,\" he said. \"From Monday to today, no jihadists have entered our town. But there are reports that a column (of rebel vehicles) was seen heading toward us from Diabaly.\"Civil servant Moussa Kone, the head of the government's planning, statistics, and territorial management office, said he had seen the soldiers arriving both last night and today. \"They have taken positions in the town, and they are out on patrol.\"France has stepped up its involvement every day, after launching the first air raids last Friday in an effort to stop the rebels' advance, then only as far as the town of Konna, located 430 miles (690 kilometers) from the capital.Fighting erupted anew today in Konna between Islamists and\u00a0Malian soldiers in the city whose capture by the militants first prompted French military intervention, while French forces kept up their bombardments of Diabaly, fleeing residents and officials said.Meanwhile, France has increased its troops' strength in\u00a0Mali\u00a0to 1,400, said French Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian.\"The actions of French forces, be it air forces or ground forces, are ongoing,\" said Le Drian in Paris. \"They took place yesterday, they took place last night, they took place today, they will take place tomorrow.\"After a meeting in Brussels of European Union foreign ministers,\u00a0Malian Foreign Minister Tieman Hubert Coulibaly said it was necessary to mobilize \"the entire international community\" to help\u00a0Mali\"What is happening in\u00a0Mali\u00a0is a global threat,\" Coulibaly told journalists at a press conference. \"Remember what happened on September 11,\" he said, referring to the terrorist attacks in the United States. \"It is that terrorism can happen anywhere, at any moment, to anyone.\"He pointed out that the hostage-taking in Algeria revealed to the world the true nature of the extremists. At least 34 of the hostages and 15 kidnappers were reportedly killed today, after Algerian helicopters strafed the remote Sahara gas plant, located in the outpost of Ain Amenas, in far eastern Algeria, according to the Nouakchott Information Agency, which has often carried reports from al-Qa'ida's groups in Africa.France remains alone as the only foreign power with boots on the ground, but on today, troops from neighboring Nigeria are expected to begin arriving. EU foreign ministers today approved sending a military training mission to\u00a0Mali, which will train local soldiers and provide advice but will not take part in combat.France is planning to deploy a total of 2,500 soldiers, more than half of what it had deployed to Afghanistan at the height of their involvement. Many of the armored vehicles being used here were previously used in Afghanistan. Yesterday, around 100 French Marines took over a major bridge over a large, turbulent river just north of the central administrative capital of Segou at the locality of Markala.The river is the major separator between the southern area still firmly under government control, and the north. Any rebel convoy coming from Diabaly, located roughly 120 miles (200 kilometers) north of the river, would need to cross the bridge. David Bache, a freelance journalist embedded with the French marines said that around 100 soldiers had taken positions at the bridge, setting up a camp, where they have parked 18 armored vehicles, mounted with artillery including 90mm cannons.Fleeing residents say that Islamic extremists have taken over their homes in Diabaly and were preventing other people from leaving. They said the fighters were melting into the population and moving only in small groups on streets in the mud-walled neighborhoods to avoid being targeted by the French.\"They stationed themselves outside my house with a heavy weapon, I don't know what sort it was. After that came the bombing, which went on from 7:30 am to 2 pm, and after that, one of them (rebels) jumped over my garden wall to grab the keys to my car,\" said Thiemogo Coulibaly.In the narrow waist of central\u00a0Mali, fighting reignited in the town of Konna, which the Islamists attacked last week and seized a day before French launched its military offensive. A Malian military official, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to journalists, said the fighting began yesterday between\u00a0Malian soldiers and Islamists from the group Ansar Dine.Abdrahmane Guirou, a nurse, said four wounded soldiers had been brought to the local hospital.A former French colony,\u00a0Mali\u00a0once enjoyed a reputation as one of West Africa's most stable democracies with the majority of its 15 million people practicing a moderate form of Islam. That changed last March, following a coup in the capital which created the disarray that allowed Islamist extremists to take over the main cities in the distant north.Security experts warn that the extremists are carving out their own territory in northern\u00a0Mali\u00a0from where they can plot terror attacks in Africa and Europe. Estimates of how many fighters the Islamists have range from less than 1,000 to several thousand. The militants are well-armed and funded and include recruits from other countries.AP","Tens of thousands of people took to the streets of the Turkish city of Diyarbak\u0131r today for the funerals of three female Kurdish activists shot dead in Paris last week.\u201cThe martyrs\u2019 path is our path,\u201d the crowds chanted as the three coffins were paraded to the main public square.Fidan Dogan, Leyla S\u00f6ylemez and Sakine Cans\u0131z, one of the founders of the separatist Kurdish Workers\u2019 Party (PKK), were gunned down in an execution-style shooting last week, which many believe may have been an attempt to derail the early stages of peace talks between Ankara and the militant group after three decades of conflict. No group has claimed responsibility for the killings, and French police have yet to make any arrests. The event was surrounded by heavy security amid fears that tensions could lead to violence. Many women wore white headscarves as a sign of peace, and the march remained sombre. Many shops were closed in mourning.The three coffins, draped in red, green and yellow flags of the PKK, were placed on platforms at Batikent Square. The bodies will now be sent to their respective hometowns in the provinces of Tunceli, Kahramanmara\u015f and Mersin.Selahattin Demirtas, chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party, the main legal pro-Kurdish party, said the killings of the three activists would not discourage Kurds from seeking peace. \u201cWe say now is the time for peace. We shout this out in front of the bodies of our dead. Don\u2019t let our children die any more. We can stop this bloodshed by talking. Through discussions we can solve our problems,\u201d Mr Demirtas said. \u201cIf the process is to advance, these murders must be a turning point.\u201dKurds are the biggest minority in Turkey, where they make up about 20 per cent of the 75 million-strong population. Since 1984, the Turkish government and the PKK have been involved in a bitter armed conflict that has cost more than 40,000 lives.Diyarbak\u0131r, known as Amed in the Kurdish language, is considered by Kurds to be the informal capital of the Turkish Kurdistan. It was in this city that Ms Cans\u0131z led the Kurdish protest movement.","Up to 106 people, including women and children, were killed as forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad swept through a small farming village, torching houses and shooting and stabbing residents, activists claimed today.The assault on Haswiyeh, near Homs, took place on Tuesday but came to light only today. The attack appeared to have sectarian motives and bore a resemblance to one last May that killed 108 people in the nearby village of Houla.The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said some of the dead were \u201cburnt inside their homes\u201d. A government official flatly denied the report, saying no such killings took place.","Residents of Jakarta were forced to wade through flood-waters in the city\u2019s central business district today.At least four people have died and 20,000 forced to abandon their homes after the capital was flooded following days of heavy rain. A state of emergency has been declared by the Governor, Joko Wid-odo.Two of those who died are said to be children aged two and 13.","Aid agencies are struggling to cope with the scale of the humanitarian crisis in West Africa caused by thousands of Malians fleeing conflict, according to a study out this week.Oxfam will publish a report on Tuesday detailing the failure of aid organisations to deal adequately with the fallout from the escalating conflict in the region. The charity says that basic needs, such as nutrition, protection and education are not being met.In the four days following the start of the French assault on January 10th, at least 10,000 Malians have abandoned their homes, joining the 375,000 people who have already been displaced by the unrest. The UN refugee agency predicts that another 710,000 people will be forced to flee because of the conflict.The civilian death toll from the conflict is still unknown - largely because humanitarian groups have been blocked from going into the conflict areas since French involvement in military operations.Oxfam found that logistical challenges, the limited experience of in-country humanitarian organisations in dealing with emergencies and a small presence of the UN\u2019s refugee agency in the region at the start of the crisis have all meant the response has been slow and insufficient.There are now more than 55,000 refugees in Mauritania, 53,000 in Burkina Faso, and an estimated 1,500 in Algeria, and some camps are already said to be dangerously overcrowded.Ilaria Allegrozzi, a policy manager for Oxfam in Mali, said: \u201cBasic needs are not being covered in an equal way, particularly with regard to education, nutrition and protection. That\u2019s what we\u2019ve observed in the camps. In Niger, malnutrition rates, particularly among children are very high.\u201dMalnutrition rates amongst children under-five in Niger\u2019s refugee camps are now at 21 per cent - way above the the threshold of 15 per cent, which the World Health Organisation uses to declare an emergency.With so many more refugees expected in the coming months, Oxfam says those distributing aid need to adapt their programmes rapidly to better support host communities and those displaced. In many places the huge influx of refugees has put a strain on local people who were already struggling on limited resources. In the town of Bassikounou in Mauritania, for example, the town\u2019s population of 42,000 is now dwarfed by the 54,000-strong camp nearby.Tom McCormack, director of Save The Children\u2019s programme in Mali, said the country : \u201cViolence in any country is nasty, but because this is one of the poorest countries in the world, people who are displaced are stretched to the limit. Even in the good years in Mali, many people have nothing to fall back on. Last year we had the double whammy of these political problems, coupled with a food shortage. It created a lot of misery.\u201dThe medical relief charity M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res (MSF) said on Friday it was being blocked access to Konna by both sides in the conflict. The charity said it was trying to send a medical team to the area to assess the needs and to deliver medical and humanitarian assistance.\u201cDespite our repeated requests, the authorities continue to refuse to grant us access to the area of Konna,\u201d Malik Allaouna, MSF operations director, said. \u201cIt is critical that neutral, impartial medical and humanitarian aid be allowed into the areas affected by fighting. We call on all parties to the conflict to respect both the civilian populations and the work of humanitarian organisations.\u201dHe continued: \u201cMSF has been working in Mali for several months now, both in areas controlled by the army and in areas controlled by the various armed groups in the north of the country. But since the Malian and French forces began their offensive, we have not been able to cross the front lines despite our neutrality. Entire regions are now cut off from outside aid.\u201d","Israelis go to the polls tomorrow for an election that could deliver one of the most right-wing governments in the Jewish state's history and deal a heavy blow to moribund peace talks with the Palestinians. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's alliance between his Likud party and former foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman's right-wing Yisrael Beiteinu party is tipped to win. But, for the first time, the coalition government that emerges in the days and weeks after the vote is also likely to include parties openly hostile to the peace process, including the Jewish Home party, led by the hawkish Naftali Bennett.He has campaigned as the only party leader who does not believe in the two-state solution. His view is today's \"imperfect\" situation is better than allowing a viable Palestinian state.Relations between Israelis and Palestinians are at one of their lowest ebbs, with the key issue of Jewish settlements in the West Bank \u2013 regarded as occupied territory by the international community \u2013 one of the major sticking points. Although the Likud-Beiteinu alliance is expected to take the most seats in parliament, the Knesset, final opinion polls on Friday showed a drop in the number it is likely to win. Support has been sapped partly by Jewish Home, but about 15 per cent of voters say they remain undecided.In an attempt to shore up support, Mr Netanyahu took up the nationalist pro-settler rhetoric, telling the Maariv newspaper: \"The days when bulldozers uprooted Jews are behind us, not in front of us. We haven't uprooted any settlements, we have expanded them. Nobody has any lessons to give me about love for the Land of Israel or commitment to Zionism and the settlements.\" He also promised that the next Israeli government would not dismantle any existing settlements.In response to the Palestinians winning a vote on statehood at the UN General Assembly in November, the Israeli government has said it will start the process of settlement building in E1, an area of the West Bank. In the past week, Palestinian activists have responded by establishing two tented camps in areas earmarked for construction, in the hope of establishing so-called \"facts on the ground\" \u2013 a term used to take account of realities such as settlements when negotiating potential land swaps in any final deal.At one camp \u2013 Bab Al-Karama, or \"Gate Of Dignity\" \u2013 in the West Bank village of Beit Iksa, Mahmoud al-Aloul, a member of the Fatah Central Committee, and someone who is close to Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, told The Independent: \"Israel behaves as [Beit Iksa] is its land and we are the strangers here \u2013 we want to live in our own land. This is a new initiative that has been adopted as a strategy by the [Palestinian Authority] leadership. It is now part of the popular struggle to confront Israeli violations and settlements.\"Saleem, a 20-year-old construction worker and volunteer at the camp, was building a small mosque from breeze blocks. He was adamant the protests would continue, saying: \"Even if the Israelis come and destroy it, I'll come back and build it again.\"His mettle may well be tested. According to reports, Israeli troops had arrived at the camp yesterday, told activists to knock the mosque down and were stopping supporters from crossing a nearby checkpoint.It is not just on the ground the peace process appears stalled. There have been no direct talks between Israeli and Palestinian officials since 2010. The Palestinians refuse to negotiate while settlement-building continues, and Israelis insist that the PA must agree to a prerequisite that any future Palestinian state is demilitarised.On an international level, too, there has been little progress. In his more than five years as Middle East peace envoy, Tony Blair has achieved little, and the main broker between the two sides, the United States, has become frustrated.Despite the runes spelling a precarious period for the peace process, there are those that are hopeful for the future. \"There is no distinction between the left and right blocs, there is a will for a two-state solution,\" says Sharon Savariego, a 26-year-old from Rishon Letzion, who works in Israel's booming tech industry.","Burmese troops attacked rebel positions in north-east Kachin yesterday despite a ceasefire order from the President and an invitation to the insurgents to take part in peace talks.President Thein Sein issued the ceasefire order to troops in the La Ja Yang area of Kachin state, near the border with China, where fighting has been fiercest.It was due to take effect on Saturday morning but Colonel James Lum Dau, a Thai-based spokesman for the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), said goverment forces had continued to attack over the weekend, both in La Ja Yang and elsewhere in the state. An offensive in La Ja Yang from about 8am yesterday involved artillery and infantry, he said. Burma's 17-year ceasefire with the KIA broke down in June 2011 and fighting has been particularly intense in recent weeks.Twenty months of fighting has displaced tens of thousands of people and, for some analysts, raised doubts about the sincerity of all the political and economic reforms pursued by President Thein Sein.Addressing a development forum attended by donor countries and international aid organisations on Saturday, the President said he had invited the Kachin rebels to a \"political dialogue\" with rebels from other Burmese states.Ten other major opposition groups from various parts of the country have already agreed to a ceasefire.A source in Kachin, who did not want to be identified, confirmed the army attacks, including one on a rebel position about five miles from the KIA stronghold of Laiza. Fighter jets had flown over the area but had not attacked, he said.Last week, the New York-based Human Rights Watch accused the army of indiscriminately shelling the town of Laiza. Loud explosions were also heard by residents of the town of Mai Ja Yang who felt the vibrations, the source added.Reuters","Police detained a man after he pointed a gas pistol at an ethnic Turkish political leader as he was speaking at a party caucus in Sofia. Ahmed Dogan struck the man before he could pull the trigger, while other delegates wrestled the assailant to the ground on Saturday.","At least eight bodies have been pulled from a well in northern Mexico, near the site where 20 people went missing late last week, including 16 members of a Colombian-style band, a state forensic official said today.The official said the Nuevo Leon State Investigative Agency was working through the night at the site in the town of Mina near the northern city of Monterrey, and the body count could rise.He said he could not confirm whether the bodies belonged to any of those reported missing.Members of the band Kombo Kolombia and their crew were reported missing early on Friday after playing a private show in a bar in the nearby town of Hidalgo late on Thursday.Authorities had been searching for two days when they came upon the well yesterday afternoon.People living near the bar in Hidalgo municipality north of Monterrey reported hearing gunshots about 4am on Friday, followed by the sound of vehicles speeding away, said a source with the state agency.The officials added that gunfire is common in the area, and said investigators found spent bullets nearby.Relatives filed an official report about their missing loved ones on Friday, after they lost mobile phone contact with them following the performance on Thursday night. When family members went to the bar to investigate, they found the band members' vehicles still parked outside.For three years, Kombo Kolombia have played a Colombian style of music known as vallenato, which is popular in Nuevo Leon state. Most of the group's musicians were from the area, and have held large concerts in addition to bar performances.Nuevo Leon state officials said one of those missing is a Colombian citizen with Mexican residency.Members of other musical bands, usually groups that performed \"narcocorridos\" celebrating the exploits of drug traffickers, have been killed in Mexico in recent years. But Kombo Kolombia did not play that type of music and their lyrics did not deal with violence or drug trafficking.AP\u00a0","A father has described the moment a French attack helicopter bombed his town in Mali, killing his wife and at least three children from another family. Amadou Jallo, 57, lost his wife Aminata in the attack on Konna in which 12 civilians died and 15 more were injured.But the couple\u2019s one-year-old son, Saida, miraculously survived the assault despite the fact he was being carried on his mother\u2019s back when the helicopter struck. \u201cI thank Allah that my son is alive. It is amazing, a miracle, that he was not hurt,\u201d he said.The deaths \u2013 which included those of\u00a0 three children aged under 11 \u2013 occurred two weeks ago as French forces tried to drive out Islamists who had taken the town from government forces, but are only now being reported after Malian troops allowed reporters into Konna at the weekend.One French helicopter pilot also died in the assault, to date the only confirmed French casualty of the war. French and Malian forces were closing in on the ancient town of Timbuktu tonight after advancing deep into the territory held by Islamist rebels. Earlier, there were ecstatic scenes in Gao as government troops entered the largest town in northern Mali for the first time in nine months.The three allied Islamist rebel groups which conquered the north of the country last year offered only sporadic resistance. The rebels appear to have scattered into the desert to avoid relentless French air attacks and \u2013 France suspects \u2013 to launch a long guerrilla war.French special forces were reported to have already arrived at the airfield in Timbuktu tonight to prepare for a larger airborne invasion today. The bulk of the Islamist fighters were said to have left the town.A resident of the nearby town of Niafunke, just to the south, said that the jihadists had fled to caves in the surrounding hills. A local shepherd said that he had seen 40 vehicles hidden in the caves.The capture of Gao on Saturday followed the same pattern as the liberation of other towns in recent days with French special forces, transported by air, doing the shooting before Malian and other French troops moved in behind them. The French forces had come under fire from \u201cseveral terrorist elements\u201d that were later \u201cdestroyed\u201d, the French military said.Lindsey Hilsum of Channel 4 News reported on her blog extraordinary scenes of joy when French and Malian forces entered Gao. \u201cThey rallied around us as we sped through the streets throwing Malian flags around our necks. Grabbing our hands shouting \u2018Thank you\u2019,\u201d she wrote.\u201cFor nine long months the people of Gao have not been allowed to sing, dance, shout or smoke. The women have not been allowed outside unveiled, let alone to ride motorbikes.\u201d\u201cNow they were doing everything as loudly and chaotically as possible.\u201dA force from Chad and Niger is expected to cross the Nigerien border today help to garrison the Gao region. This will be the first front-line deployment by the pan-African force up to 7,500 strong which is expected eventually to take over most of the ground fighting from the French.Despite efforts in recent days to talk up the achievements of \u201ccoalition forces\u201d, a French army spokesman confirmed today that their troops had led all combat efforts since France intervened two weeks ago last Friday. \u201cIn the field it\u2019s clear that it\u2019s more efficient to send French troops with heavy equipment,\u201d he saidFrench warplanes struck targets today in Kidal \u2013 the last of the three major towns held by Islamists in northern Mali. Among the reported targets was the home of Iyad Ag Ghaly \u2013 the leader of Ansar Dine, one of the trio of Islamist groups that has controlled northern Mali for the last nine months. Tensions between Paris and Washington over the French intervention appeared to have been resolved over the weekend.After dropping its demand for payment by France for use of its transport planes, the Pentagon agreed to use of three KC-135 aerial refuelling planes based in Spain to help French fighter-bombers to attack targets in northern Mali from airfields in France.","Israel's former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who suffered a huge stroke seven years ago that has since left him in a vegetative state, has shown signs of significant brain activity say doctors treating the 84 year-old.Mr Sharon - Israel's leader between 2001 and 2006 -is unlikely that he will wake from the coma he has been in since suffering the stroke, say doctors, but that the results of a medical examination last Thursday were \"encouraging\".Mr Sharon \"might be awake, and there is a chance that he is conscious,\" Alon Friedman, a neurological director at Israel's Soroka Medical Centre in Beersheba told Reuters. \"To some extent the patient is what we call 'locked in', he understands and responds with his brain but cannot activate any muscles.\"Mr Sharon's career was marked by controversy. As a candidate before the 2001 general election, he visited the Temple Mount in Jerusalem's Old City, the world's holiest place for Jews, and the site of the Dome of the Rock and the al-Aqsa Mosque. Some observers argue that the visited sparked the Second Intifada, but defenders of Mr Sharon say the Palestinian uprising had already been planned.A career soldier who reached the rank of Major-General in the Israeli Defence Force, in 2003 he withdrew from the Gaza Strip, a move that was welcomed by both the Palestinian Authority and Israel's left.However, a year after leaving Likud and forming a new centrist party, Kadima, he was struck in January 2006 by the stroke that has since left him needing constant medical care.Dr Friedman said that the former prime minister's eyes were open for some of last week's assessment, and that he responded to the sight of family photographs. \"The results of the tests are not clear but encouraging, and they surprised us,\" he added.","Gunmen on a motorcycle have shot dead a police officer protecting polio workers during a UN-backed vaccination campaign in Pakistan.The attack took place as dozens of polio workers - including several women - were going door-to-door to vaccinate children in Gullu Dheri village of Swabi district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.\"The polio workers were terrified and immediately went back to their homes after the attack,\" a police spokesman said. \"The anti-polio drive in that village has been suspended.\"Elsewhere in the north-west, a man wounded a polio worker with an axe. He was marking houses in Machi village to indicate where vaccines had been administered and the attacker became angry after his door was marked.The attacks occurred on the second day of a three-day campaign against polio that was launched by the provincial government. No one claimed responsibility for the shooting in Gullu Dheri, but suspicion fell on militants.Some Islamic militants oppose the vaccination campaign, accuse health workers of acting as spies for the US and claim the polio vaccine is intended to make Muslim children sterile.Suspicion of vaccination campaigns heightened considerably after a Pakistani doctor helped in the US hunt for Osama bin Laden.In December, gunmen killed nine polio workers in similar attacks across Pakistan, prompting authorities to suspend the vaccination campaign in the troubled areas. The UN also suspended its field operations in December as a result of the attacks. They have since resumed some field activities.The latest campaign in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was launched on Monday to give oral drops to those children who had missed it the first time round.Pakistan is one of only three countries where the crippling disease is endemic. The virus usually infects children living in unsanitary conditions; it attacks the nerves and can kill or paralyse. As many as 56 polio cases were reported in Pakistan during 2012, down from 190 the previous year, according to the United Nations.Most of the new cases in Pakistan were in the north-west, where the presence of militants makes it difficult to reach children.Pakistan is also struggling to maintain control of its southern province of Baluchistan.Gunmen in a car opened fire on two police constables who were patrolling on motorcycles in the provincial capital, Quetta. Both the officers were killed instantly.AP","At least 65 people have been found dead, apparently shot in the head with their hands bound behind their back, in the Syrian city of Aleppo.The pro-opposition, British-based monitoring group Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said that although 65 people have been confirmed dead, the death toll could still rise to around 80 in what it described as a \u201cnew massacre\u201d.Photos posted online by activists showed the muddied bodies of about a dozen men lying by a small river in what they said was the Bustan al-Qasr neighbourhood of Aleppo.Close-up shots of some of the corpses showed they had what appeared to be gunshot wounds to the head.Government forces and rebels in Syria have both been accused by human rights groups of carrying out summary executions in the 22-month-old conflict, which has claimed more than 60,000 lives.Rebels pushed into Aleppo, Syria's most populous city, over the summer, but have been stuck in a stalemate with government forces. The city is divided roughly in half between the two sides.","Downing Street has announced that up to 200 British military personnel could be sent to West Africa to help train a regional intervention force for Mali.The news signifies the UK's deepening involvement in an effort to drive Islamist militants out of the country.David Cameron's official spokesman said the troops would be in addition to around 40 personnel that Britain is offering to contribute to a European Union training mission to enlarge the Malian army.The additional up to 200-strong military force will include a roll-on, roll-off ferry to help transport heavy equipment to the French intervention force currently spearheading the fight against the Islamist militants.It will also allow allies, such as the United States, to fly air-to-air refuelling missions from British airbases in support of the French operation.However the spokesman said that an offer to establish a joint Anglo-French logistics headquarters in Mali to organise supplies to the French force had not been taken up by Paris.With around 90 UK personnel already committed in the region with the RAF Sentinel surveillance aircraft and two C-17 transport aircraft already operating in support of the French mission, it could take the numbers involved to more than 300.However the spokesman said David Cameron remained adamant that British troops would not be involved in combat operations against the militants.\"We have been very clear with everyone about our position of no combat role. That remains entirely unchanged,\" the spokesman said.The mission to train a West African force known as Afisma - which has been under consideration since late last year - was being discussed at a donor conference for Mali being orgainsed by the African Union in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.British personnel with be involved in training troops from Anglophone countries, such as Nigeria, which is expected to be one of the largest contributors to Afisma which is slated to take over from the French once their mission is over.\"We think the right way to do this is for regionally-led forces to take the lead. The UK's role in supporting Afisma is to support that regionally-led capability,\" the spokesman said.He said it was yet to be decided whether the personnel would be based in the countries of the forces they are training or in Mali itself.\"That is part of the discussions that are ongoing,\" he said.However he said the personnel taking part in the EU training mission would not be involved in force protection.","Britain\u2019s growing military commitment to Mali and West Africa is likely to pass 400 within a matter of weeks, sparking fears of \u201cmission creep\u201d and cross-party criticism that UK forces are being sucked into a Vietnam-style conflict without a defined exit strategy.A fortnight ago David Cameron promised that Britain would only send \u201ctens, not hundreds\u201d of troops to help the French-led operation. That prediction from the Prime Minister has been shredded as UK assistance to the French-led operation has significantly increased.The growing importance of the unrest in West Africa was highlighted last night when Downing Street announced the PM would be flying to Algeria tomorrow for urgent talks with Prime Minister, Abdelmalek Sellal.Mr Cameron was already scheduled to attend a development conference in Monrovia, Liberia, but added the Algerian meeting following the recent hostage crisis at the Amenas gas plant which left six Britons and 47 others dead.Number 10 said the discussions were likely to include the military campaign in Mali, a neighbour-state to Algeria.The Defence Secretary Phil Hammond was forced to make a statement to the Commons today admitting that troop numbers in the region would substantially rise with new support for an EU training mission in Mali and up to 200 additional personnel who will assist a United Nations-backed training programme for forces from neighbouring West African states.UK military advisers are already in place helping the UN\u2019s Africa-led International Support Mission to Mali (AFISMA). Ground and technical support teams for a Sentinel surveillance aircraft plus two C-17 transport planes protected by combat-ready troops from the RAF Regiment, have also been deployed.Around 20 British personnel are in the Malian capital, Bamako, liaising with French forces that have already passed the 3500 mark. Further British military assistance in the form of a specialist ferry to help land French armoured vehicles at ports in Senegal or The Gambia, alongside the offer of expert personnel to help staff a joint UK-French logistics headquarters in Mali , is also being considered.Britain\u2019s national security adviser, Sir Kim Darroch, has been in Paris this week holding talks with his French counterparts. The talks \u2013 focused on France\u2019s short-term military shopping list for Mali \u2013 suggest the UK\u2019s role could grow.In advance of Mr Hammond\u2019s statement, a Ministry of Defence spokesman said the mission in Mali needed to be \u201cflexible\u201d and accepted that if circumstances changed and other countries did not contribute as predicted to the French-led operation, the UK\u2019s role could widen further.The Shadow Defence Secretary, Jim Murphy, told the Commons that the government needed to face \u201cbroader worries about mission creep\u201d adding that the commitment to Mali had grown from lending to aircraft to the French to the \u201cdeployment of perhaps hundreds of troops.\u201dMr Murphy said the British people \u201cdid not want to see this as another war that their country should not have been in.\u201dIn the Commons two former defence secretaries voiced concern that the Mali operation was proceeding without having precise military goals.Sir Malcolm Rifkind, defence secretary during the Bosnian war, called on the government to develop a \u201cpolitical strategy\u201d for the region, to work with north and west African countries, and warned if this did not happen Britain could be drawn in years of \u201casymmetric conflict\u201d \u2013 uneven guerrilla warfare - with Islamist forces.Bob Ainsworth, in charge of defence in Gordon Brown\u2019s government, warned against the dangers of UK heading into a conflict without knowing exactly how long the job would take.The former cabinet minister, Frank Dobson, captured the mood of many MPs when he predicted that \u201cMali could become Britain\u2019s Vietnam.\u201d\u00a0 The \u201cAmerican catastrophe in Vietnam,\u201d said Mr Dobson, \u201cstarted off with American troops in a training capacity.\u201dBob Stewart, the Tory MP and former British Army Colonel who commanded UK in Bosnia, also warned against the dangers of \u201cmission creep\u201d and said there was currently a \u201cgrey area\u201d over the role of troops deployed for training, but who nevertheless were armed and could yet face combat situations.General Sir Mike Jackson, the former Chief of the General Staff, backed the government\u2019s assessment of Mali\u2019s importance. \u201cWhat happens in the middle of nowhere \u2013 as Timbuktu used to be called \u2013 matters. If the Jihadists took over in Mali, it would not end there.\u201dAlthough Mr Hammond was forced to repeat that there was \u201cno intention to deploy combat troops\u201d and that so far there had been a \u201cwell-judged and well-leveraged intervention\u201d, Downing Street appeared to be on the defensive after the statement from the defence secretary and refused to answer any questions that mentioned parallels with Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq.Two conferences taking place today \u2013 one in Brussels and the other in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia \u2013 addressed the military needs of forces in Mali and in it neighbouring states.African and western states attending the two gatherings, pledged more than $450m to aid the Mali operation. Japan, which lost 10 of its national in the Amenas attack, pledged $120m.The current price tag for the operation is estimated at close to a $1 billion.Discussions in Brussels focused on how a 500-strong training mission could be put together and sent to Mali within two weeks. Deployment of the EU\u2019s battle group of 1700 troops has been ruled out.France has so far not asked any western nations for ground troop support, but logistical, transport and intelligence help has widened from the UK to include forces from Germany and the United States.Washington recently announced that it would operate specialist in-flight tankers to help refuel French fighters and bombers.","Egypt\u2019s army chief has issued a bleak warning that the nationwide chaos in which 52 people have been killed is pushing the country to the brink of collapse.The statement from Abdel Fattah al-Sisi \u2013 a former spy chief who was elevated to Commander-in-Chief last summer by President Mohamed Morsi \u2013 marked the first time that the military has reared its head since the latest wave of violence began on Friday.After tanks and troops were deployed to protect the three cities sitting along the Suez Canal over the weekend, General Sisi\u2019s comments were a stark reminder of the clout still wielded by Egypt\u2019s military following its retreat from the political fray last year.\u201cThe continuation of the struggle of the different political forces \u2026 over the management of state affairs could lead to the collapse of the state,\u201d said the general, who also sits as Minister of Defence in Mr Morsi\u2019s cabinet.He added that the country\u2019s economic and\u00a0 political challenges were a \u201cthreat to the security of Egypt and the cohesiveness of the Egyptian state\u201d.With the nation\u2019s political institutions crippled by post-revolutionary gridlock, and an unreformed police force which appears unable or unwilling to contain escalating street violence, some believe Mr Morsi is a President sitting on a throne of bayonets.The controversial constitution which was hurriedly rubber-stamped in December granted the military substantial perks, effectively placing Egypt\u2019s officers and their extensive economic interests above civilian oversight.In the statement, which was published on the army\u2019s official Facebook page, General Sisi added that the army would remain \u201cthe solid and cohesive block\u201d on which the state was based.The comments may alarm some Egyptians who are wary about the military\u2019s decades-old influence on the nation\u2019s political institutions.Yet most are less concerned about the meddling of their beloved army than they are about the deteriorating security situation.","The United Nations has said that it was struggling to cope with an \u201cunrelenting flow\u201d of families fleeing violence in Syria, as the number of documented refugees topped 700,000.Sybella Wilkes, a spokeswoman for the UN\u2019s refugee agency UNHCR, said that the number of families seeking refugee across the border had risen \u201cdramatically\u201d, with more than 3,000 crossing into Jordan on Monday alone. Some 712,000 refugees had registered with the UNHCR or were awaiting registration, though true figures are likely to be much higher as many are wary of making themselves known to authorities.\u00a0Atrocities like the discovery of dozens of bodies in an Aleppo canal who appeared to have been summarily executed, underline the horror they are escaping. An upsurge of violence in Deraa has led entire villages to pack up and leave, according to officials in Jordan, where a new refugee camp is being hastily constructed after 21,000 people arrived in the last week alone.In Lebanon, where there are no official camps, refugees construct their own tents in shanty communities or take shelter in garages, empty shops and storerooms.\u201cWe have seen an unrelenting flow of refugees across all borders,\u201d said Ms Wilkes. \u201cWe are running double shifts to register people. We are trying to clear a backlog of people because the numbers have gone up so dramatically (in Jordan and Lebanon).\u201dThe influx is exacerbated by a funding crisis, with the UN\u2019s appeal for $1.5bn to assist those displaced inside and outside the country only 3 per cent funded. The organisation hopes to plug some of its shortfall at a crucial donor meeting in Kuwait.Save the Children said the funding shortfall is leaving thousands of families without essential aid. It said its $35.9m programme for Syria is only a third funded so far. Travelling with the aid agency to the Lebanese town of Baalbek, met with refugees who were struggling to survive after the area was battered by bitter winter storms.The Independent\u201cI left because of my children, they couldn\u2019t sleep, there was shooting, bombing and the stress meant they stopped eating,\u201d said Maryam, who fled from the town of Al Qusair.\u00a0 \u201cBut life is so hard here, we don\u2019t have fuel or electrify and this place leaks heavily.\u201dThe US pledged an additional $155m (\u00a398m) in aid, which it said would be used for immunisation, and buying food and winter supplies. The UK donated a further \u00a321m at the weekend, taking the total provided for humanitarian aid in Syria to \u00a389.5m.\u201cThe relief we send doesn\u2019t say \u2018Made in America,\u2019 but make no mistake \u2014 our aid reflects the commitment of the American people,\u201d said President Barak Obama.","The bodies of dozens of executed young men were discovered in a small canal in the Syrian city of Aleppo, before being dragged out and lined up on the muddy riverbank in a chilling scene that underscored the brutality of the country\u2019s grinding civil war.Foreign journalists were able to access the area and verify reports from rebels and activists that at least 65 corpses had been found in the Quweiq River in Bustan al-Qasr. An Agence France Presse correspondent at the scene said 78 bodies were recovered by the end of the day, with more still in the water, unable to be retrieved due to sniper fire.In a haunting video posted by activists a cameraman picks his way through the bodies at the riverside. Bloated and mud-caked, many had their hands bound and appeared to have bullet wounds to the head, still seeping blood. After zooming in on 37 corpses \u2013 some of whom appear to be in their teens, dressed in jeans and trainers \u2013 he lifts his camera to the riverbank in front of him, where at least a dozen more bodies lie in the distance.Residents gathered at the riverbank to search for missing loved ones.\u201cMy brother disappeared weeks ago when he was crossing [through] the regime-held zone, and we don\u2019t know where he is or what has become of him,\u201d Mohammed Abdel Aziz told AFP as he examined the bodies.The area of Bustan al-Qasr, a neighbourhood just northeast of the key battleground of Salaheddine, remains contested and has been the scene of intense battles and airstrikes since Aleppo was convulsed by fighting in July.The city remains divided, as neither side appears able to take the upper hand in the street battles. The 129-mile Quweiq River begins in Turkey and travels through government and rebel held districts of Aleppo before it reaches Bustan al-Qasr.It remains unclear who the men were, as none were carrying identification.Both sides have been accused of committing summary executions in the past. While activists and rebels squarely blamed the government, speculating that the men may have been killed further upstream, a regime official told news agencies that the men had been kidnapped by \u201cterrorists\u201d for being pro-government and had been executed in a park on Monday night.\u201cNow these terrorist groups are creating a media campaign, showing the bodies being recovered from the Quweiq River in an area under their control,\u201d he said.\u201cTheir families had made repeated attempts to negotiate their releases. We will disclose the identities of those killed as soon as we are able to secure the bodies.\u201dOver the past 22-months the Syrian conflict has morphed from a popular uprising into a multifaceted and increasingly sectarian war, claiming more than 60,000 lives.\u00a0Activists said the bodies were loaded onto trucks and taken away to be identified.Another video showed the bodies of seven men piled into the back of a truck, one with a gaping wound in his head, eight more lying in the street, some covered with tarpaulin as crowds milled around. The video cuts to others in a pool of blood-stained water in the back of a white flatbed truck.\u201cThey were killed only because they are Muslims,\u201d said a bearded man in another video, speaking in front of a pickup truck piled with bodies.Though corpses of men killed execution-style have been discovered in the city before, this was by far the largest mass killing to be publicised, adding Aleppo\u2019s Bustan al-Qasr to the string of place names that will be remembered for the atrocities that took place there.\u201cThis is another new massacre that has been committed in Syria, adding to the constant massacres that have been occurring, while the world watches silently and the international and Arab community are being hypocrites,\u201d the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in astatement. The Local Coordination Committees put the death toll across the country at 157, including 80 dead in Bustan al-Qasr.AFP correspondent Antonio Rodriguez told The Independent that he had counted 78 bodies that had been pulled from the river in a makeshift morgue at the nearby Yarmuk School. \u201cThere were 78 corpses in four rows and covered with blue sheets, beside them a number,\u201d he said.\u201cFamilies came to identify them. Most of the dead had a single shot to the head, and his hands tied behind his back, leaving no doubt that they were executed.\u201dAl-Assad\u2019s wife 'pregnant with fourth child'Asma al-Assad, the British-born wife of the Syrian President, is pregnant with her fourth child, according to a Lebanese newspaper. Mrs Assad, 37, who met Bashar al-Assad while he was studying in London and married him in 2000, has not been seen in public for months.The pregnancy was mentioned in passing in Lebanese daily Al Akhbar, which has received criticism for its perceived support of the Syrian president.The Syrian government has not commented on the report.Richard Hall","Mali\u2019s most storied city is in the final hours of its occupation by Jihadists who faced international condemnation and a powerful foreign expeditionary force closing in by land and air.Frantic preparations were being made to escape into the desert, but there was still time for one last outrage. A group of militants arrived at the gates of the Ahmed Baba library after dark last Wednesday. They told the guards they had come to secure its trove of ancient manuscripts. In fact they had come to ransack and burn one of the Saharan city\u2019s richest cultural collections.Today, the aftermath was scattered through the passageways of the South African-funded cultural centre. Handcrafted boxes were strewn about the floor alongside charred papers and scorched antique leather bindings. Manuscripts dating back as far as the 13th Century were no more than ashes floating on the morning breeze. The shelves of the reading room had been emptied into heaps on the stone floor outside and burned like rubbish. An unknown number of papers are also thought to have been stolen.Abdullahi Cisse, a historian and archaeologist who works at the centre, struggled with his words as he surveyed the devastation: \u201cThe wealth which has been burned will be impossible to replace,\u201d he said. \u201cThese manuscripts were the source of life for this city.\u201dAmong the fragments that survived the bonfire was a cover signed by a long-dead professor from Timbuktu\u2019s University of Sankore. Established in the 1400s it had been the first university in the Maghreb and during its heyday was one of 180 schools in and around the city hosting some 100,000 students.\u201cFor these Islamists, these Jihadis, for them there is only the Koran, everything else is worthless,\u201d said Prof. Cisse. He has no doubt why this collection was targeted even as French forces were beginning to encircle Timbuktu. \u201cThey know how much these manuscripts represented to Mali, to Africa and the entire world. They are at war and they wanted to hurt the enemy.\u201dThe catalogue numbers on the boxes are all that remain of the wealth of history, geography, biology, astronomy and theology that once illuminated these documents. The only consolation is that it could have been worse. The Ahmed Baba collection numbers some 30,000 precious manuscripts that had been brought together to be catalogued and conserved in modern conditions. When the black banners of the al-Qa\u2019ida affiliates were first hoisted in Timbuktu in April last year the bulk of the collection was transferred for safekeeping in the capital, Bamako.Many thousands of other manuscripts are held in smaller libraries in the city or with the families that descended from the Islamic scholars who gave this trading post on the edge of the Sahara its status as a centre of learning. Even when historic tombs and shrines were being vandalised last year, attracting international concern on a par with the Taliban\u2019s destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan, the libraries had been left alone.The institute of Ahmed Baba, a saint and one of Timbuktu\u2019s most revered scholars and Islam, had been thought to be safe. But the role of saints in Timbuktu attracted the particular ire of the militants Islamists who ruled here for ten months. The city and its environs were home to some 333 mausoleums dedicated to saints, many of whose descendants would visit them to worship each Friday. The most famous of them, the Sidi Mohamed shrine, was made a World Heritage site by the United Nations cultural body, Unesco.Today, as the residents of Timbuktu pull down the last Jihadist banners the shrine is a pile of rubble. Ignoring desperate appeals for moderation were ignored and the militants set about demolishing dozens of the mausoleums, claiming that they elevated false idols to the status of God. Some where chiselled away with hammers, others were rammed with heavy vehicles. At places like the Three Saints Mausoleum locals have already begun to return to their ruined shrines placing the ornate wooden door carefully on the wreckage to give some semblance of order.This conflict\u2019s damage to the region\u2019s global image will be equally hard to restore. The kidnap and ransom of foreign visitors that flourished since the 1990s has now been compounded by the Islamists\u2019 conquest of northern Mali. Together they have obliterated the tourist trade. Timbuktu\u2019s hotels have fallen into disrepair during the occupation. The once grand Hotel Colombe is a now a collection cracked walls and dust-filled rooms without electricity or running water.And yet little has shocked the previously tolerant population as much as the violent assault on their multicultural history. Elhadj Djitteye, a resident who once made a living from guiding foreign visitors through the city\u2019s great mausoleums recalled the confusion caused by the militants\u2019 alien doctrine: \u201cMany great powers like the Moroccans have dominated this city but these were the first people to tell us that our saints were blasphemy.\u201d\u201cThey tried to break the heart of Timbuktu.\u201d","Gunmen on motorbikes killed a police officer protecting polio workers during a UN-backed vaccination campaign in a north-western village.The attack took place as dozens of health workers \u2013 including several women \u2013 were going door-to-door to vaccinate children in Gullu Dheri in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, a\u00a0 police spokesman said. None of the health workers were hurt.Elsewhere in the north-west, a man wounded a polio worker, Mohammed Mumtaz, with an axe. Mr Mumtaz\u00a0 was marking houses in Machi village to indicate where vaccinations had been administered. The attacker became irate after his door was marked and swung the axe at Mr Mumtaz, injuring him on his left arm.The attacks occurred on the second day of a three-day campaign against polio launched by the provincial government. No one claimed responsibility for the shooting in Gullu Dheri, but suspicion fell on Islamist militants.Some Islamists oppose the vaccination campaign, accusing health workers of acting as spies for the United States and claiming that the polio vaccine is intended to make Muslim children sterile.Suspicions heightened considerably after it became known that a Pakistani doctor helped in the US hunt for Osama bin Laden.In December, gunmen killed nine polio workers in similar attacks across Pakistan, prompting authorities to suspend the vaccination campaign in the troubled areas.","Ethnic Kachin rebels in north-eastern Burma are digging a new front line just three miles from the Kachin state capital of Laiza, after losing a series of their strategic mountain outposts in battles with the Burmese army.Kachin Independence Army (KIA) troops have only tattered sheets of tarpaulin to protect them against an aerial bombardment, which they expect any day from the Burmese battalion stationed less than a mile away on the adjacent slope, near\u00a0 the border with China.\u201cWe are not afraid of their ground troops but they have so many powerful weapons,\u201d said Brang Bhawng, a 53-year-old sergeant with the KIA. \u201cSometimes they drop 100 or 200 mortars on us in an hour. You can\u2019t even open your eyes when that is happening.\u201dThe Kachin have spent half a century fighting for greater autonomy within Burma and an end to discrimination against their Christian community. In June 2011, a 17-year ceasefire broke down and up to 100,000 civilians have been displaced amid reports of human rights abuses by the Burmese military.As government troops approach Laiza, the rebels feel increasingly abandoned by the country\u2019s icon of democracy, Aung San Suu Kyi. While the KIA was being bombed out of its mountain redoubt at Hka Ya on Saturday, Ms Suu Kyi was\u00a0 addressing a televised luncheon in Hawaii, at which she made no mention of the war raging in her country\u2019s second-largest state.\u201cHer focus is collecting awards and becoming President, rather than the suffering of our people\u201d said Khon Ja, the founder of the Kachin Peace Network, which organises aid for the displaced. \u201cKachin community leaders have been asking to meet her for over a year, but she has continuously refused.\u201dMs Suu Kyi told newspaper earlier this month that she had limited powers to directly comment on the war. \u201cWe will only be able to avoid such conflicts if we begin to practice a culture of negotiation,\u201d she said.The IrrawaddyMs Suu Kyi\u2019s diplomatic language sits uncomfortably with reports from Human Rights Watch and other international organisations of extensive \u201csexual violence, forced labour, torture and summary executions\u201d as the Burmese military has advanced through Kachin state.In a camp for refugees on the edge of Laiza on Monday, one woman recounted the fate of her brother when he returned to look after his rice farm. \u201cThere had been no fighting for a few days, so he thought it was safe to return, but he was caught by the Burmese army,\u201d said La Sam Kho, 50, who now runs the women\u2019s association in the camp. \u201cThey cut off both his legs before they shot him\u201d.The government of President Thein Sein, who has been lauded for his efforts to reform Burma\u2019s repressive military regime, says it is acting in \u201cself-defence\u201d against the KIA\u2019s \u201cterrorist actions and atrocities\u201d.But there has been international condemnation as the military has intensified its assault on Laiza in the past month, including the use of jet fighters against rebel positions, which the US government called an \u201cextremely troubling\u201d escalation.Back at the front line, Lieutenant Sham Tu was defiant. \u201cThis is our last defence line so we will hold it,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are fighting against injustice, trying to protect our people and our identity. If I\u2019m ordered to fight I will not retreat. I will keep fighting until I die.\u201d","Troops are in control of Kidal airport in northern Mali, seizing a key position in one of three provincial capitals the Islamist militants took last year.French and Malian troops have recaptured two of the other cities, Timbuktu and Gao, in recent days.Colonel Thierry Burkhard of the French army said the airport was taken overnight and described the operation in Kidal as \"ongoing\".Haminy Maiga, interim president of the Kidal regional assembly, said French forces met no resistance when they entered the town yesterday .He said French troops and helicopters are in the city today.The loss of Kidal would mean the Islamists no longer control any of the northern provincial capitals that they seized last April.","Russia said today it was very concerned about reports of an Israeli air attack deep inside Syria near Damascus and that any such action, if confirmed, would amount to unacceptable military interference in the war-ravaged country.\"If this information is confirmed, then we are dealing with unprovoked attacks on targets on the territory of a sovereign country, which blatantly violates the UN Charter and is unacceptable, no matter the motives to justify it,\" the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.Sources told Reuters yesterday that Israeli warplanes had bombed a convoy near Syria's border with Lebanon, apparently targeting weapons destined for Hezbollah in what some called a warning to Damascus not to arm Israel's Lebanese enemy.Syrian state television accused Israel of bombing a military research centre at Jamraya, between Damascus and the nearby border. Syrian rebels disputed that, saying their forces had attacked the site.Russia has been trying to shield Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from international pressure to end the civil war against opposition forces that has ravaged the country over 22 months and killed an estimated 60,000 people. Moscow has repeatedly spoken against any foreign interference in Syria, especially military action.Reuters","A mob of wild monkeys went on a rampage in a village in eastern Indonesia, entering houses and attacking residents.Seven people were injured, including one who is in a critical condition.Ambo Ella, a spokesman for Sidendeng Rappang District in South Sulawesi province, said the surprise attack by about 10 monkeys happened in Toddang Pulu village.He said a 16-year-old boy was badly bitten in the attack and is was being treated in hospital.He believes the troop came from a nearby forest protected by a local tribe. It is unclear why the monkeys, which are usually afraid of humans and flee when they hear human voices, emerged and attacked.Authorities are investigating to find out what prompted the attack, which caused panic among villagers.","Amateur footage has captured a tornado tearing through the state of Georgia.The twister has also wreaked havoc on several other states including Mississippi, Indiana and Tennessee.","The government has announced plans to install and operate advanced uranium-enrichment machines. This would be a technological leap allowing it significantly to speed up activity the West fears could be put to developing a nuclear weapon.In a letter to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Tehran said it would introduce new centrifuges to its main enrichment plant near the central town of Natanz, according to an IAEA communication to member states seen by Reuters. The defiant move will increase concerns in the West and Israel about Iran's nuclear ambitions.","A lorry carrying fireworks before the Chinese New Year celebrations exploded on a highway bridge today, killing at least 26 people as it sent vehicles plummeting to the ground.The blast destroyed a section of the bridge outside the city of Sanmenxia.Emergency crews closed the highway at the accident site, said China National Radio, which reported the death toll. The Xinhua News Agency reported four deaths but said search and rescue efforts were continuing.Photos posted on the popular news site Sina.com by Chinese netizens showed a stretch of elevated highway gone, with a truck perched precariously at the broken edge.Other photos showed wrecked vehicles below and blackened chunks of scattered debris.","The last time Commander Adama was seen in Timbuktu was when he gathered his fighters on the bank of the river and declared the struggle was far from over: they were going to prepare for the coming battles of the jihad.With that, the man who had led the Islamists into Konna, threatening the capital Bamako and triggering French intervention, disappeared into the northern vastness followed by dozens of gun-mounted trucks bristling with men alive to fight another day.As celebrations continue after the liberation of Timbuktu and French President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande prepares to fly into Mali, French troops with a core of special forces are hunting Adama and his fellow leaders in the deserts and mountains of Mali.The flight of Adama and other key commanders -- along with the discovery of roadside bombs \u2013 is fuelling fears the swift French and Malian advance could be followed by a punishing guerrilla insurgency. \u201cThe terrorists fled from the towns but we know that many of them are hiding and waiting for opportunities,\u201d said Major Suleiman Maiga, an infantry officer in the Malian army. \u201cWe have been shown [surveillance] photographs by the French locating where they are and we are moving on them.\u201dAfter the Islamists seized\u00a0 Timbuktu, Adama took over the post of the head of Islamist police. He was severe in his application of sharia, extending the range of \u201ccrimes\u201d to include failure to wear trousers cut off at the shin in prescribed Salafist manner.\u201cEveryone was extremely frightened of him. I did not see him hit anyone, but he certainly ordered beatings,\u201d said Idris Cisse, who worked at the office of the governor.In Konna, he dispersed his fighters among the residents, one of the reasons French air strikes claimed the lives of a dozen people, including women and children. He also ordered, it is claimed, the shooting of two hippos which were then eaten by his foreign fighters.That a man such as Adama remains free and armed, Major Maiga acknowledged, pointed towards a long and difficult journey to peace in Mali.The largest concentration of mountains where he could have fled is the Adrar des Ifoghas range north of Kidal. French troops have seized Kidal airport but appear to be waiting for a political solution with non-religious, separatist Tuareg groups which retain control of the town. They have warned of a \u201cbloodbath\u201d if Malian troops are allowed to enter the town.The Adrar des Ifoghas range already has a network of caves, tunnels and defensible firing points used both by smugglers and Islamists affiliated to al-Qa\u2019ida. There were unconfirmed reports that the Islamist leader Mokhtar Belmokhtar, accused of ordering the attack on the Algerian gas complex, had been spotted there.The French Defence Minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, has warned that the retreat to the\u00a0 Adrar des Ifoghas is \u201cjust a tactical withdrawal which must not dupe us\u201d.There have also been reports of jihadist groups moving further south, one of them led by Alou Toure, the notorious head of Islamist police in Gao. At the same time there was an ominous development in the campaign with five Malian soldiers killed and four more severely injured when their truck hit a mine on a supposedly cleared road between Gao and Gossi.Until now the French have not had to face roadside bombs as a significant threat, something they have become painfully accustomed to in Afghanistan. In the last two days, however, there had been a rising number of operations to retrieve caches of explosives the Islamists are believed to have secreted for the next phase of their campaign.In the main towns, however, there is jubilation, and President Hollande will probably be greeted as a saviour in when he arrives in Bamako today, three weeks after he sent in the French military to prevent the country from falling to Islamist rebels.Several problems face Mr Hollande, however, when he meets the interim Malian President, Dioncounda Traor\u00e9 today. Human rights groups produced fresh evidence yesterday of civilian casualties in airstrikes and\u00a0 reprisals by Malian soldiers against Tuareg and Arab citizens of northern Mali.","When disturbing video footage emerged of a naked man being brutally beaten by riot police as he lay cowering on the roadside on Friday night, many Egyptians compared the scenes to the worst abuses of state power under former president Hosni Mubarak\u2019s regime.But as anti-government vitriol mounted \u2013 fuelled by the no-holds-barred TV clips showing baton-wielding officers hauling their victim across the asphalt \u2013 a strange thing happened.The man at the centre of the storm, an impoverished 50-year-old painter called Hamada Saber, emerged on state television and blamed protesters for the violent attack.Lying in his bed at the police hospital after the assault, he told an interviewer that he had been stripped of his clothes by anti-government demonstrators then robbed.The startling volte-face appeared to take the heat off the Egyptian government, which had been facing a renewed excoriation over its failure to reform the reviled police service.Yet tonight the spotlight again fell on President Mohamed Morsi and his cabinet after lawyers and activists voiced suspicion that Mr Saber had been forced to doctor his account of what really happened on Friday night.According to Ragia Omran, a lawyer who worked to find Mr Saber after he was attacked, Mr Saber\u2019s relatives soon became suspicious about the reasons behind his sudden U-turn.Ms Omran, who was in contact with Mr Saber\u2019s half-brother as they tried to locate him, said that in the wake of the beating and subsequent maelstrom of publicity, she believed the authorities had mounted an elaborate damage control exercise to cover up the incident.\u201cWhy would they have taken him to a hospital only used by police officers?\u201d she said, adding that another video was now circulating online in which Mr Saber purportedly admits the complicity of the security services.The row over police brutality comes at a sensitive time for Mr Morsi, a long-time Muslim Brotherhood figure who has been accused by his opponents of betraying the 2011 uprising.Over the past week, Egyptians have been marking the second anniversary of the insurrection by tallying up the latest death statistics in a nation wracked by political unrest.Nearly 60 people have been killed so far following the clashes that erupted last week.Most of the violence, which included gun battles on the streets of Port Said between protesters and the security services, has been directed at the police \u2013 an institution which has remained largely unreformed since Mubarak was toppled two years ago.In a report released last week, Human Rights Watch lambasted Mr Morsi for the lacklustre progress he had made since being elected last summer.\u201cSix months after President Mohamed Morsi assumed power, criminal defamation and blasphemy prosecutions are increasing, police torture with impunity remains endemic, and civilians continue to face trials before military courts,\u201d the report said.Maha Maamoun, a human rights activist, accused President Morsi of continuing the abuses of his predecessor, adding that the case of Hamada Saber was evidence that the \u201crevolution hadn\u2019t happened\u201d.\u201cThe revolution was against police brutality,\u201d she added. \u201cPeople were marching against the police as a basic demand. But there has been no reform. Nothing. If anything it is getting worse.\u201d","Israel\u2019s outgoing Defence Minister, Ehud Barak, has given the strongest hint yet that his country was behind an attack on Syria last week.Israel has refused to comment on reports that its air force bombed at least one target across its northern border last Tuesday morning. However, speaking at a conference of defence and diplomatic officials in Munich today, Mr Barak said: \u201cI cannot add anything to what you have read in the newspapers about what happened in Syria several days ago. I keep telling frankly that we said \u2013 and that\u2019s proof when we said something we mean it \u2013 we say that we don\u2019t think it [Hezbollah] should be allowed to bring advanced weapons systems into Lebanon.\u201dThe Syrian President, Bashar al-Assad, today accused Israel of trying to destabilise Syria by attacking the Jamraya base, according to state media. He was reported to have said Syria was able to confront \u201ccurrent threats... and aggression\u201d.Israeli politicians have long voiced their fears that Syria\u2019s stockpile of chemical and biological weapons could end up in the hands of groups such as Hezbollah, in Lebanon, or other Jihadist factions fighting the Assad government.Officials, including the Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, have warned they would not allow Hezbollah, with which the Jewish state fought a month-long war in 2006, to cross the \u201cred line\u201d of acquiring Syria\u2019s weapons, such as its Russian-made anti-aircraft missiles.It is still unclear what was targeted on Tuesday. American officials have said that Israel hit a convoy of vehicles, which it presumed was carrying SA-17 anti-aircraft missiles, near the Syrian border with Lebanon. Syria has insisted that its Jamraya military research facility, just north of Damascus, was the target and that the attack left two people dead.For the first time, on Saturday night Syrian state television showed footage of what it said were the remains of the site at Jamraya. Al-Ikhbariya TV showed the wreckage of a number of vehicles. The Syrian government, along with that of Iran, and Hezbollah, has vowed to avenge the strike, without giving details.","Suicide bombers killed at least 16 people outside the police headquarters in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk today in the third such attack in the region in recent weeks.A vehicle painted to resemble a police car and packed with explosives, was first detonated at the side entrance of the police station before two gunmen dressed as police, wearing explosive belts, tried to fight their way into the building. Both were killed before they could blow themselves up. At least 12 government employees died and a large crater was left in the road.According to some sources, as many as 33 people may have been killed and 90 wounded in the attack, which also injured the Kirkuk police chief, Sarhan Qader. Like its recent predecessors, the attack has the hallmarks of a well-coordinated al-Qa\u2019ida operation.Kirkuk, with its mixed Kurdish, Arab and Turkmen population, has been controlled by the Kurds since they captured it at the time of the US-led invasion in 2003. But Kurdish claims to Kirkuk have never been recognised by the government in Baghdad, which also disputes the right of the Kurdistan Regional Government to award oil exploration contracts to foreign companies. There have also been a series of stand-offs in the so-called \u201cdisputed territories\u201d between Kurdish and government forces, although most confrontations have been defused.\u00a0Al-Qa\u2019ida, while not the force it was in 2006-07, is still capable of recruiting suicide bombers and making sophisticated attacks.The official police account says \u201ca suicide bomber driving a vehicle packed with explosives hit the entrance of the headquarters and after the blast gunmen in explosive vests attacked with AK47s and grenades, but the guards killed them.\u201dIt is not clear exactly how the latest attacks relate to ethnic divisions in and around Kirkuk, but they appear to be aimed at contesting the Kurds\u2019 de facto control. One of the bloodiest recent bombings was directed at Shia Turkmen in the town Tuz Kharmato, south of Kirkuk, when a bomber killed 23 people inside a mosque.Some 4,400 people were killed in attacks and bombings in Iraq in 2012, the first increase in three years.","A lasting peace deal could be agreed in Afghanistan within six months, David Cameron insisted yesterday as he urged the Taliban to lay down its weapons and enter talks over the country\u2019s future.There will be scepticism over the Taliban\u2019s willingness to engage with the political process \u2013 as well as fears that it could bide its time until the end of 2014 when all Nato troops are due to be withdrawn, with Afghan troops\u00a0 then assuming total responsibility\u00a0 for security.The Taliban was not represented at the Chequers summit, which featured Afghan President Hamid Karzai and his Pakistani President, Asif Ali Zardari.The Afghan and Pakistani presidents said they would try to bury their neighbouring nations\u2019 differences in the search for a stable political settlement. As recently as September 2011, the US accused the Pakistani intelligence services of backing insurgents staging bomb attacks in Kabul.As a first step towards persuading the Taliban to abandon violence and enter the political process, the three leaders backed plans for it to open a bureau in the Qatari capital, Doha.The office would act as an unofficial \u201cembassy\u201d for the Taliban, enabling it to initiate formal contacts with the Afghanistan High Peace Council, which was set up to negotiate with the fundamentalist organisation.The Taliban, which was in power in Afghanistan for five years until it was toppled by an American-led invasion in 2001, has to decide by the autumn whether or not to contest next year\u2019s presidential elections. British sources insist there are grounds for optimism that the Taliban, which has mounted a decade-long insurgency against western forces, could be persuaded to negotiate. During talks at Mr Cameron\u2019s Chequers residence, President Karzai pledged \u201cfull support\u201d for the Afghan leader\u2019s \u201croadmap for peace and reconciliation\u201d.Britain interpreted the apparent improvement in the previously strained relations between Afghanistan and its neighbour as encouraging. Yesterday\u2019s Chequers summit was also attended by military and intelligence chiefs from Britain, Afghanistan and Pakistan.Mr Cameron said the two leaders had agreed \u201can unprecedented level of co-operation\u201d and added that their agreement should send a clear message to the Taliban: \u201cNow is the time for everyone to participate in a peaceful, political process in Afghanistan.\u201dMr Karzai said they had had a \u201cvery frank and open discussion\u201d. He had previously been sceptical about the\u00a0 establishment of a Taliban office\u00a0 in Qatar.","Amadou Traore sifted through the documents strewn on the floor, some of them Islamist instructions on punishment. He stuffed the papers into his pocket to have them translated from Arabic, just in case they gave any inkling of what might have happened to his uncle after he was led off at gunpoint.The 24-year-old student was at the home of the governor of Timbuktu. After the governor fled, the jihadists used the building to hold people who had transgressed their uncompromising version of sharia. A visit to another \u201cprison\u201d \u2013 a shuttered bank \u2013 had proved fruitless. There was just one more place to try.I had first heard Amadou speak with anxiety about his uncle, Saif Moussa Traore, in the capital Bamako three weeks ago. The student was seeking work as a translator after the French military intervention made the conflict ravaging Mali a global news story. He had a good command of English to offer, but his real reason for seeking the job was the opportunity it may give him to get to Timbuktu quickly and find the man he called his real father.Saif Moussa, a 49-year-old electrician and devout Muslim, had questioned the Islamists over their interpretation of sharia, doing so through a public council they had set up. He was rebuffed and arrested when he persisted with his complaints.Opposite the governor\u2019s house, Amadou stopped outside what used to be the monument to Al-Faroukh, the traditional protector of Timbuktu, which had been smashed during an Islamist purge in which priceless manuscripts, mausoleums of saints and historic mosques were destroyed.\u201cMy uncle put me through school, he sent me to university,\u201d he said. \u201cBut these people who took over so much of our country hate learning, culture. I used to sit with my friends, other students, and plan to go abroad if they kept coming south. There would have been no place for us.\u201dI ran into Amadou from time to time as we made our journey across Mali from south to north in the footsteps of the French campaign, as territory which had fallen in the march of jihad began to be retaken with remarkable speed. Looking at the charred remains of the Islamists\u2019 gun-mounted trucks hit by attack helicopters outside Diabaly, the first town to change hands, Amadou said he felt for the first time that the enemy can be driven out of the country.Along with the gains came grim signs of vicious abuse and violent retribution: the family of Shekan Kandaku, shot dead by Islamists, burying him in their back yard in Diabaly because the gravediggers had fled and the cemetery shut down; a man in his seventies plaintively asked officials whether one of the Tuareg bodies shot by Malian soldiers and stuffed down a well could be that of his son; a man taking his mother to hospital whipped by the jihadists for travelling in the same car as a woman; the look of terror on the face of 17-year-old Jalu as he was led off by Malian forces protesting his innocence, and whispering \u201chelp me\u201d.\u201cThis will go on now, the only way to stop this would be to make a totally new start when the Salafists are thrown out,\u201d said Amadou. \u201cBut this would be very difficult. I do not know if people would be able to forgive, I don\u2019t know if my aunt can or I can do that, people will have memories.\u201dMoussa Manta is one of those haunted by his memory. Shekan Kandaku had hammered at his door in Diabaly, desperate to find safety. \u201cHe was one of my closest friends, but I did not know it was him at the door. There was shooting and shouting and I was scared. I did not open the door; he was my friend and I did not open the door. That is what the Islamists did to us, they made us feel fear all the time.\u201dThe fear has also led to ethnic hatred. The current round of strife started when Tuareg separatists, boosted by looted arms from the arsenal of Muammar Gaddafi, declared an independent homeland in the north. Al-Qai\u2019da in Islamic Maghreb joined the rebellion, taking over the leadership and much of the heavy weaponry.The Tuaregs are now viewed as the authors of Mali\u2019s misfortune. I found a group of them seeking sanctuary among the Dogons, a tribal people who had trekked to the wilderness a thousand years ago rather than give up their ancient gods for Islam. Now they were being preyed on once again by militant Islam. At one of their villages set in a landscape of escarpments and valleys, 56-year-old Okatabula, a teacher in peacetime, was carefully wrapping up sacred totems of this people, effigies of crocodiles and snakes, in oilcloth in case they need to be hidden away. \u201cWe are lucky we live in such a remote place, difficult to find unless you know the tracks. We have faced such danger before and we have survived.\u201dThe Tuaregs in Timbuktu had no such chance to hide away. They have fled the city, and along with them have gone the Arabs who were accused of being collaborators with the Islamists. Amadou recalled an Arab trader who lived with his family near his uncle\u2019s home. \u201cThey have run away, we found guns in many of the houses of the Arabs,\u201d said a neighbour, Mohammad Dialla. Were there any guns in this particular house? \u201cThey probably took them with him,\u201d shrugged the neighbour.Amadou went to the last of the prisons, another shut-down bank. All the doors were locked beyond the foyer. At a tea shop nearby they recalled a man whose description fitted Saif Moussa being taken out 10 days ago with a bloodied head. Despite this worrying news, Amadou still clung to hope.\u201cThere has been no one who looks like my uncle who has been executed in Timbuktu,\u201d he said. \u201cI still think I shall find him, I think I shall take good news to my aunt.\u201d\u00a0","Two senior Islamist leaders were reported to have been captured today as they fled French bombardments of rebel bases in the mountains of northern Mali.The two men, including a law-enforcer who allegedly ordered amputations and whippings in Timbuktu, were seized by a non-Islamist armed group near the Algerian border.Up to 40 French warplanes, some flying direct from France, have been pounding rebel bases and supply dumps in the deserts and mountains of the far north of Mali in the past two days.The French Foreign Minister, Laurent Fabius, said that the objective was to \u201cdestroy their support bases, their depots because \u2026 they can only stay there in the long term if they have the means to sustain themselves\u201d.The situation is complicated by the fact that seven French hostages, seized in recent years in Mali and surrounding countries, are believed to be held by the Islamist insurgents in the Adrar des Ifoghas mountains in the far north-eastern corner of the country. Any attempt by French special forces to follow up the air strikes could endanger the lives of the hostages.A further complication is that the largest town in the far north of Mali, Kidal, remains at least partially in the hands of two separatist Tuareg groups who have split from the Islamist fighters.One of these groups, the MNLA (Mouvement national pour la Lib\u00e9ration d\u2019Azawad) claimed to have captured the two Islamist leaders in an attack on a fleeing convoy and to have handed them over to local authorities in Kidal.They were named as Mohamed Moussa Ag Mohamed, third in command of the Ansar Dine movement and the former sharia law enforcer in Timbuktu, and Oumeini Ould Baba Akhmed, of the al-Qa\u2019ida affiliated Movement for Unity and Jihad in West Africa (Mujao).As the French intervention enters its fourth week, both government and opposition figures in France have warned that the Islamist rebels are far from defeated despite the rapid advances of French and Malian troops since early January.The former centre-right Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, said: \u201cVictory is not assured. We have not wiped out the terrorists \u2026 They can come back. We are entering a second phase of guerrilla warfare and terrorist attacks.\u201dTwo civilians were reported by the UN to have been killed after stepping on a landmine planted by the insurgents. Four Malian soldiers died in a similar incident last week.France hopes to remove some of its 3,500 ground troops as soon as possible and hand over to the Malian army and a force of up to 8,000 soldiers from neighbouring African nations. \u201cWithdrawal could happen very quickly,\u201d Mr Fabius said. \u201cWe\u2019re working towards it because we have no desire to stay [in Mali] for the long-term.\u201dIn Kidal, however, the two Tuareg separatist groups controlling the town have warned that they fear a \u201cbloodbath\u201d if Malian or West African soldiers enter what is an almost entirely Tuareg and Arab community. Paris and Bamako appear to have taken heed of this warning. French special forces seized the airport at Kidal last Wednesday but have not yet taken control of the town.No French or foreign journalists have been allowed near Kidal and the situation is uncertain. According to French media reports, there have been fire-fights in recent days between French troops and scattered Islamist guerrillas close to the town. According to another report, some French special forces and troops from Chad \u2013 ethnically closer to the inhabitants \u2013 have entered Kidal.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was greeted as a national hero when he visited Bamako and Timbuktu at the weekend.He said that French intervention was a \u201crepayment of the debt\u201d to Malian troops who fought for France in two world wars.Timeline: the fight for Mali Islamists capture Konna, the furthest south they have ventured since taking control of northern Mali\u2019s main cities following a coup in the capital, Bamako, in March 2012. Mali\u2019s interim President appeals for French intervention.10 January 2013 France launches first air strikes on Konna, and claims it has pushed rebels out of the town.11 January Further strikes on the rebel-held towns of Kidal and Gao.13 January Islamists seize Diabaly, a town even further south than Konna.14 January French troops launch first ground assault against rebels.15 January Malian troops recapture Konna.17 January French and Malian troops push north to Niono and Sevare. French Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian vows the \u201ctotal reconquest\u201d of Mali.20 January French and Malian troops announce they have recaptured Diabaly, and announce recapture of Gao four days later.22 January Malians cheer as French troops announce they have recaptured Timbuktu.28 January France declares the intervention a \u201csuccess\u201d as French troops try to secure Kidal, the last rebel stronghold in northern Mali.30 January French President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande visits Timbuktu.2 February Kidal remains in rebel Tuareg hands.4 February"]},{"x":0.0913292764802077,"y":0.156380329612816,"no_docs":9,"words":[{"prob":0.000112628054739911,"word":"day"},{"prob":0.00491309825522199,"word":"including"},{"prob":3.62890049537705e-05,"word":"week"},{"prob":1.58364297538316e-05,"word":"february"},{"prob":0.00015443833585486,"word":"flights"},{"prob":0.000740193227007819,"word":"uk"},{"prob":3.57355022739244e-05,"word":"night"}],"docs":[" Two years ago we had a 24-hour delay on returning from Dominican Republic. We emailed Thomson but they did not offer any compensation. Have we still time to claim? I do not have any paperwork but have entry and exit date-stamps in my passport to show we left after 15 days.Q.Linda Burgess Thanks to a court judgement late last year, claims for flight delays of three hours or more can go back six years, to 2007. The law applies to all flights operated by EU-based airlines, so you should be able to claim \u2013 unless Thomson Airways can demonstrate there were no \u201cextraordinary circumstances\u201d that it could not have anticipated. The company supplies a standard form for delayed passengers to complete. It stresses that claimants must supply the original flight tickets, but when I took it up with the company, it confirmed that other forms of proof are acceptable.A.The CAA produces a useful guide here, including a standard letter to make it easier: bit.ly/CAAhelpClick to email Simon.HEREYou can also tweet him your questions @SimonCalderFollow @_SimonCalder","Just half an hour west of the neon madness of Las Vegas, you can begin a circuit through some of America's most spectacular desert scenery. Turn off the air-con, open the windows and let the warm Nevada breeze wash over you as the road twists through peaks and valleys. Several days and almost 1,000 miles northwest, you finish a drive beside the beautiful Columbia River valley, and head south along Highway 101 beside the Oregon coast. With the music up and the surf raging, a Pacific Northwest storm is a compelling experience \u2013 as is gliding along one of the Depression-era parkways in Virginia or Tennessee that give access to terrain as dramatic as it is historic.Americans are so wedded to the road that they don't define distance in miles \u2013 they do it in hours, with the general assumption that you can tick off one mile a minute on the interstate network. The US is designed to allow someone in Bangor, Maine, who decides to visit a pal in San Diego, California, to get into a car and drive \u2013 as expeditiously or adventurously as they like. You can take advantage of the low cost of car rental to create your own road movie \u2013 exploring the Great Outdoors of the south west US in wide screen, or New England in close-up. You escape the restrictions of public transport \u2013 skeletal or non-existent in much of the US \u2013 and gain the freedom of the open road.You could single-mindedly set about ticking off the natural phenomena of the Rockies, or the best theme parks in Florida. Or you can see how the serendipity of the road unwinds, exploring rural backwaters in Louisiana or Michigan. Every fly-drive trip is different, but some basic principles apply. Pre-booking a car in the UK is almost always the best policy and securing a proper fly-drive package is better still.Virgin Holidays (0844 557 4321; ) has an excellent online fly-drive search option, with appetising prices. A week's holiday, picking up and dropping off at McCarran airport in Las Vegas on the first Saturday in August, with non-stop flights from Gatwick, a four-door saloon from Alamo and fully inclusive insurance, costs just \u00a31,073pp based on two travelling. Knowing you have the right level of insurance means you can safely decline all the salesperson's extras. (For comparison, Virgin's ordinary economy air fare alone on those dates is \u00a3960 \u2013 meaning use of a $20,000 vehicle costs you just \u00a316 per person per day.) And although Americans gripe about the cost of \"gas\", it only costs about 50p a litre.virginholidays.co.ukNumerous tour operators offer deals for accommodation plus car hire. Trailfinders has a nine-day \"Rhythms of the South\" trip from New Orleans to Nashville with a B&amp;B stay at the Heartbreak Hotel, Memphis and a stop in Natchez for \u00a3959pp, based on two travelling (valid to 24 March). Western &amp; Oriental (020-7666 1234; ) has a one-week \"Canyon Adventure\" in Utah, Arizona and Colorado for \u00a31,201 with flights, car and hotels.westernoriental.comIf you prefer to make your own arrangements, consider using a car-rental broker rather than going direct to the hire firms. Holiday Autos (0800 093 3111; ) can negotiate excellent prices and, in my experience, offers good customer service when things go awry. A one-week, one-way rental from Miami airport to Orlando airport in May costs \u00a3144 for the \"Max\" option, which is really everything you need: unlimited mileage (standard in the USA), airport fee, breakdown assistance, collision damage waiver, environmental tax, state taxes, supplementary liability insurance, theft waiver, third-party liability insurance and loss damage waiver. Oh, and a full tank of petrol. Pack a family of four in, and the cost for a week of Floridian exploration works out barely a fiver per person per day.holidayautos.co.ukOne-way rentals have plenty of appeal: while the road trip from Boston to Miami along US Route 1 constitutes a fascinating drive, it is not necessarily a journey you would want to make on a return basis. Rental firms can charge punitive sums \u2013 normally payable locally, in dollars \u2013 for the privilege of dropping off a car in a different state. For that Boston-Miami run, Holiday Autos quotes a very reasonable \u00a3168 for a car for a week, but warns you must hand over another $500 to drop it off. Even across a single state line, you can expect to be charged.Finally, on a long latitudinal trip, always go west: as time zones change, this extends the days.Mother roadsRoute 66, from Chicago to the Pacific at Santa Monica, State Route 1 on California's coast, and Route 61 along the Mississippi from Minnesota to New Orleans \u2013 all resonate. Before you book, however, make sure expectations are realistic. On Route 66, just a few scenic byways remain. Titan Travel (0800 988 5823; ) has a 17-day coach tour, at \u00a32,295 with flights on\u00a0BA or Virgin, hotels\u00a0and stops in St Louis, Amarillo and Albuquerque. California's State Route 1 is an ideal connection between LA with San Francisco, on a spectacular route. The best stretch of Highway 61 is through Mississippi, where it earned the name \"The Blues Highway\".titantravel.co.ukIn the heart of TexasTexas exemplifies why America is made for fly-drive. Start in the east, at Houston and explore the spectacular San Jacinto Monument, Space Center Houston and the beaches of Galveston. The capital, Austin, three hours west, is more diverse, tolerant and relaxed. For early Texan history, aim south to San Antonio, home to the Alamo. From here, go north to the Hill Country or west to Big Bend National Park, above. On ba.com, you can book a fly-drive week with non-stop flights between Heathrow and Houston, departing 1 June, for \u00a3670 based on two sharing. If you join BA's Executive Club, which is free, you qualify for a second driver free.Mind how you goFly-drive should be carefree and good value, but pitfalls await the unwary. Car-rental clerks are often on commission for selling extras so, if you have an all-inclusive deal, resist them. Beware strange practices such as overtaking on the inside on freeways. The \"Stop\" sign is sacrosanct, as is the school bus when loading or unloading. Each state has its speed limits, typically 60-75mph on freeways and rural highways, 25mph or less in town.Network USThe railroad may have built America, but in the 21st century its lifeblood flows along the highways that mesh, mesmerically, across the nation. So, before you choose your itinerary, it helps to understand how the US road system works. The foundations comprise the \"Interstate and Defense Highways\", prefixed I-, providing the postwar network that still carries most long-distance traffic. East-west highways end in zero, and range from I-10 \u2013 at times scraping the Mexican border \u2013 to I-90, the route threading close to the Canadian frontier, and the longest interstate in the country. North-south interstates are suffixed with a five, from I-5 in the west to I-95 in the east.If you were to choose only one interstate, make it I-80 \u2013 it runs between George Washington Bridge, New York City, and downtown San Francisco, some 2,900 miles. You pass the Crossroads of America (where it meets I-75 in Ohio), Salt Lake City and the Bonneville Salt Flats, and California's capital, Sacramento. BA, United and Virgin Atlantic offer \"open-jaw\" tickets, to New York, non-stop from Heathrow, and back via San Francisco.Something specialA Ferrari F430 Spider has a top\u00a0speed of 199mph.\u00a0You can rent\u00a0one from Hertz (via its US website, hertz.com) in Miami on Independence Day, 4 July, for $1,500 (\u00a31,000) for 24 hours. You get 75 free miles, after which you pay $3 (\u00a32) per mile.Bon Voyage (0800 360 3012; ) has a nine-day guided Wild West motorcycle trip from 23 May for \u00a32,665. It takes in Death Valley, Yosemite and California State Route 1.bon-voyage.co.ukFor a more sedate trip, try a motor home (RV), especially if you plan to take in the national parks. Established specialist Cruise America (001 480 464 7300; cruise america.com) has a week's \"Intermediate\" RV rental (sleeps six), picking up in Denver on 3 August for $1,253 (\u00a3835). No mileage is included, so each mile costs $0.42, adding \u00a3140 for a 500-mile trip. Look out also for relocation deals, such as Chicago to California, departing April/May.Free RideThe driveaway concept is simple: a vehicle owner who doesn't fancy the trek asks an agency to find a stranger willing to drive thousands of miles, while they fly \u2013 ideal for travellers with plenty of time but limited cash.Overseas visitors are favoured by companies such as Auto Driveaway (001 703 360 8250; ). The Virginia-based firm currently lists a saloon from Seattle to Maryland and an SUV from Nashville to Arizona. You need to be 23 or over, with a clean driving record. Expect to be fingerprinted and to leave a $350 (\u00a3233) deposit. You pay for all the fuel, apart from the first tank.autodriveaway.comYou are given some leeway on the length of time you are allowed and the maximum mileage you may drive. On a driveaway from Miami to Oregon, direct distance 3,500 miles, I was allowed 3,750 miles within 10 days.If you exceed the mileage, your deposit is in jeopardy and if you fail to deliver on time your liberty is threatened \u2013 the police will start looking for you."," How do we get our 14-year-old daughter, unaccompanied, to see her pen-friend in Santander in northern Spain?\u00a0 She\u2019s a savvy south Londoner, so we\u2019re sure she\u2019ll cope. But I have only just spotted (luckily, before I paid) that Ryanair doesn\u2019t take unaccompanied under-16s.Q.Name withheld, London SE1 As you have discovered, Ryanair insists \u201cChildren under the age of 16 years must always be accompanied by a passenger over 16 years\u201d. As Ryanair is the only airline that flies from London to Santander, this presents something of a problem.A.Happily, the airports on either side of Santander on Spain\u2019s north coast \u2013 Bilbao and Asturias \u2013 are served from Stansted by easyJet, which allows 14- and 15-year-olds to travel on their own; the rules are available here: bit.ly/KidsAlone. Bilbao, which is closer and has better links to Santander, is also served from Heathrow daily by Vueling. This Spanish airline is even more liberal: children as young as 12 can travel unaccompanied. The quick, \u20ac1.35 bus ride from Bilbao airport into town terminates at the bus station, the \u201cTermibus\u201d, from where fast and frequent services to Santander take about an hour. But perhaps the pen-friend\u2019s parents may collect her.Santander is an excellent destination for both teenagers and normal people. It is an exciting, cultured city with plenty to see, as well as a long, sandy beach. Indeed, so attractive is Santander that I have a final suggestion. You could, after all, fly at least one way to or from Santander with Ryanair, and spend a couple of days in the city. Or each parent could make a short trip, one to deliver your daughter and one to collect her.Click to email Simon.HEREYou can also tweet him your questions @SimonCalderFollow @_SimonCalder","Since moving to Jerusalem a little over three weeks ago, there have been several unpleasant shocks to my system.Neither Israelis nor Palestinians can drive. That's a fact. And the reaction to being stationary for more than five seconds is a constant blast on the horn until the hapless driver causing the blockage (usually me) eventually finds a way to get out of the way.In West Jerusalem, Saturday is an unusually dull day. Everything closes for the Shabbat and, for non-Jews like me, unless you've got out of the city, or have a decent stock of Sudoku, you can be in for a very long day.However, one thing at which the Israelis excel is breakfast. They take the first meal of the day very seriously and it can set you up for the whole day. In one restaurant on the Bethlehem Road, the \"classic\" breakfast is simply something to behold. Various pastes, cheeses, fish, eggs, breads and a fresh salad all find their way on to your plate and, if you finish it, well, you're a better man than me.Locals throng to restaurants at breakfast-time and most do a roaring trade. In my early favourite, getting a table can be the biggest challenge. Before arriving here, I worried that my staple breakfast \u2013 a bacon or sausage sandwich, or a full-blown English \u2013 would be one of things I'd miss most (other than family, friends and cat, of course), but I have to admit the Israelis have done me proud.When I'm next home, I'll have a serious decision to make \u2013 do I make baked beans, or a salad. I never thought such dilemmas would ever trouble me.","The road had disappeared. It was there a second ago, winding up the snowy mountain pass, but suddenly I couldn't see it any more: only whiteness. I slowed to a crawl, squinting for the next road marker to prevent me driving off the mountain. We didn't dare stop \u2013 any car behind wouldn't see us until they'd crashed into us \u2013 so we edged on, the occasional vehicle only looming out of the murk as it passed us. Then, just as abruptly, we emerged from the white-out, the reassuring sight of Route 1 meandering into the valley below.None of this was surprising. After several days driving in Iceland, we knew that Route 1 \u2013 the 1,300km road that circles the island \u2013 could throw anything at us, and all our little Hyundai i20 could do was cling to the Tarmac (or gravel, in some sections of the road) and let the capricious Icelandic weather have its wicked way.My boyfriend and I were on a week-long anti-clockwise tour of Route 1, eager to see the icy north, with its promise of volcanoes and bubbling mud pools. There are more accessible craters \u2013 Thrihnukagigur is just 13km from Reykjavik \u2013 and the much-visited Golden Circle provides a handily located snapshot of Iceland's tempestuous landscape. But with the majority of the country's 320,000 inhabitants (not to mention its tourists) in the Reykjavik area, we wanted to see how the rest of the country braves an Icelandic winter.The short answer is: with a four-wheel drive and a shovel. We had neither, and as we began our trip by driving south from Reykjavik it quickly became clear what we were up against. Iceland sits just below the Arctic Circle astride the ever-growing gap between the North American and Eurasian tectonic plates. It is is a landscape in motion: one of voluminous waterfalls, brooding volcanoes, fields of lava, boulders and churning seas crashing onto black-sand beaches. We saw all this in a morning, stopping to admire the heavy veil of the Skogafoss waterfall, just south of the Eyjafjallajokull volcano that clogged the airways with its ash cloud in 2010. Then we stretched our legs on the beach at Vik, our footprints exposing the black sand beneath a topcoat of snowflakes. The weather changed constantly: the morning sun was eclipsed by cloud, snow and gales, before reappearing as a fierce slash of yellow, silhouetting the jagged rocks on the coastline.There were few other tourists. We chatted with a lone traveller at Vik, still reeling from seeing the Northern Lights the night before, and encountered just one other couple at our first night's stop, a guesthouse east of Skaftafell, the blueish toe of the massive Vatnajokull icecap. Like us, they'd driven from Reykjavik, but were turning back after a day's exploration. We breakfasted together in semi-darkness \u2013 in winter the sun doesn't rise until at least 9.30am \u2013 before they saw us off with good-luck wishes and a recommendation for a website that monitors road conditions.It felt slightly foolhardy, setting out in ferocious winds and rain, but it was exhilarating, too, even though the weather quashed our planned boat trip on the Jokulsarlon glacier lagoon. Here, trapped in a pocket of water just inland, bobbed boulders of ice broken free from the icecap. We bundled up to gape at these frozen sculptures, tinged blue and threaded through with grey like varicose veins.The wind kept up a howl all day; it buffeted us along as we followed Route 1 round the eastern fjords, long fingers that emerged ghost-like from the cloud. We picnicked in the car near a fishing village, watching the spray lash against the shore. As the road headed inland, it turned perilously slippery, a blizzard threatened and with it, nerves rose. We'd been aiming to get to Lake Myvatn that night, but with dusk descending, we called it a day in the small town of Egilsstadir.Over a pint of Gull (Icelandic lager) I doubted the wisdom of our expedition. Might not the Golden Circle have been a wiser choice in winter? But when darkness lifted the next morning, my doubts dissolved. The wind had died and a bright, low sun cast a luminosity over the snowy road north-west to Lake Myvatn. We drove calmly through vast fields of white punctuated by the outline of volcanoes, revelling in the clear light that reminded us we were at the top of the world.We'd been told Lake Myvatn was beautiful, but nothing prepared us for how other-worldly it was: steam hissed from the ground in eggy plumes (this sulphuric belching makes the whole country smell), a geothermal river snaked through snow like a hot knife through butter, and lunar shapes protruded from the lake. We lingered here in sunshine for two days, climbing the huge Hverfjall crater and exploring the slopes around the Krafla volcano, where a power plant harnesses the area's geothermal energy for hot water and electricity.At night we combated the -11C cold by relaxing in the Myvatn Nature Baths, north Iceland's version of the Blue Lagoon; unlike in its touristy counterpart, we shared the 40C thermal waters with just a few locals. Then, as though in recompense for its prior temper tantrums, the weather awarded us winter's top prize: the Aurora Borealis, hanging like a brushstroke of incandescent green over our cabin.We left, reluctantly, following orange skies west to Akureyri, the capital of the north, before travelling south through that white-out towards Reykjavik. In the end, we spent our final day visiting the Golden Circle. It was easy to see why the ethereal Thingvellir National Park inspired early Icelanders to choose it as the site of the country's first parliament, but we encountered the first tour buses of our trip there.At Geysir, we joined a clutch of Brits to gawp at the bubbling pools, which farted water 20m high every 10 minutes; while at Gullfoss we slid down the icy path to take close-ups of this mighty waterfall. But our photos were the same as everyone else's. I couldn't help but feel smug that we'd already seen so much more.TRAVEL ESSENTIALSGetting thereThe writer flew with Icelandair (0844 811 1190; icelandair.co.uk) which offers returns from Gatwick, Heathrow and Manchester to Keflavik airport. Alternatives include easyJet (0843 104 5000; easyJet.com) from Luton and Manchester and WOW Air (00 354 590 3000; wowice land.co.uk) from Gatwick.Staying thereGuesthouse Hali, Sudursveit (00 354 478 1073; hali.is). Doubles start at ISK14,000 (\u00a370), including breakfast. Dimmuborgir Guesthouse, Lake Myvatn (00 354 464 4210; dimmuborgir.is). Doubles start at ISK12,500 (\u00a362), room only.More informationVisit Iceland (00 354 511 4000; visiticeland.com).","What's the attraction?There has been thick snow and a deep freeze on our doorsteps, and it feels like Christmas was barely a moment ago. However, the half-term holidays are on the horizon \u2013 for most 16-24 February, but for some a week earlier \u2013 offering the opportunity for a winter escape to the sun, or deeper into the snow of Europe's ski resorts. It's the perfect excuse for a pick-me-up family adventure.For a dose of sunshine, mid-haul destinations come into their own: Dubai offers average temperatures of 20C, while Egypt is a warming 19C. Meanwhile, ski resorts will see their busiest week as families pile in for the snow-sure conditions. And closer to home, self-catering cottages make for an affordable break and can be just as beautiful in winter as in summer \u2013 with plenty of local attractions almost empty. National Trust Cottages (0844 800 2070; nationaltrustcottages.co.uk), for example, offers free entry to local National Trust properties.European escapeMake the most of off-season Europe, with quiet museums and uncrowded landscapes. British Airways (0844 493 0758; ba.com/nice) has a week at the Splendid hotel in Nice; the price of \u00a3488 per person includes flights from Gatwick on 17 February and accommodation.Alternatively, immerse yourself in Spanish culture. Families Worldwide (0845 051 4567; familiesworldwide.co.uk) offers the week-long Rural Andalucia package; the price of \u00a3499 per child and \u00a3799 per adult includes flights from Gatwick on 16 February, half board and activities such as Spanish and cookery lessons and cheese-making.Or live like Italian royalty in Umbria at the restored 16th-century Palazzo Seneca, set in its own gardens near Norcia. Abercrombie &amp; Kent (0845 485 1143; abercrombiekent.co.uk) offers four nights at the palazzo; the price of \u00a3620 per person includes flights from Heathrow or Gatwick with daily departures, B&amp;B and car hire.A grand day outYou don't have to go abroad to make the most of the half term break. The National Museum of Scotland (0300 123 6789; nms.ac.uk) has a Living History: The Glasgow Vikings day on 17 February, complete with a Viking encampment. Admission free. Find out how the Victorians lived at the interactive Steam, Sweat and Sewers exhibition at The Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester, from 16-24 February. Admission free. Or live it up in Falmouth on 15 February with an overnight family stay at Pendennis Castle (0870 333 1181; english-heritage.org.uk). Sit down to supper, enjoy a twilight tour then bed down for the night; \u00a3240 for a family of four. In Herefordshire, families are invited to discover the first signs of spring on the daily nature trails at Brockhampton Estate (01885 482 077; nationaltrust.org.uk/brockhampton- estate) from 16 February. Children can look out for different birds and note them on a \"spotter sheet\" for the chance to win a prize.Cruise controlTake to the high seas with the children. Thomson (0871 231 5938; thomson.co.uk) has a week aboard the Majesty on a circuit from Tenerife, taking in Gran Canaria, La Palma, Madeira, Agadir in Morocco and Lanzarote. The price of \u00a32,349 covers two adults and two children sharing an inside cabin, full board, with multiple restaurant options, a spa and kids' club and flights from Edinburgh on 15 February. Many other UK departure airports are available.Costa Cruises (020 3564 5219; costacruises.co.uk) has a seven-day tour from Italy to the Balearic Islands on board the Costa Pacifica; the price of \u00a32,656 for a family of four includes a premium cabin, full board and flights from Heathrow to Genoa on 16 February. Or try a short hop to Amsterdam. DFDS Seaways (0871 522 9955; dfdsseaways.co.uk) has a two-night cruise from Newcastle to Amsterdam for \u00a3223 for two adults and two children including a canal cruise and zoo trip.Seeking sunshineThaw out on warmer shores. Original Travel (020 7978 7333; originaltravel.co.uk) is offering a week at the luxurious The Oberoi resort at Sahl Hasheesh near Hurghada on Egypt's Red Sea Riviera; the price of \u00a3920 per person (no child reductions) includes breakfast and return flights from Gatwick on 9 and 16 February.Club Med (08453 87 87 87; clubmed.co.uk) is offering a week at its resort in La Palmeraie, Marrakech, set in the oldest palm grove in Morocco with free transfers to the city; the price of \u00a3929 per adult and \u00a3555 per child includes flights from Heathrow on 16 February, all inclusive.Or hit the beach at Dubai's new Ocean View Hotel, near the Marina and The Palm, where every room has a sea view. DialAFlight (0844 881 4444; dialaflight.com) offers a four-night package; the price of \u00a3843 per adult and \u00a3799 per child includes departures any day from 10 February from Heathrow.Insider information\"The most popular destinations for half term this year are Egypt and Tenerife, while alternative destinations such as the Algarve, which may not be quite so hot, offer great value for money but also have plenty to do on a family holiday. Flexibility is the key to keeping the cost down: for example, could you travel during the week rather than over the weekend? If you are looking for a skiing trip, try some of the smaller resorts .... If you are a beginner, you may not need the same number of runs to keep you occupied and often a smaller resort is ideal.\" Mandy Round, general manager, easyJet Holidays (holidays.easyjet.com)Great British breaksYou don't have to go far for a restorative break. Cwmcrwth Farm (01558 669 160; cwmcrwthfarmcottages.co.uk) in Carmarthenshire, has seven nights' self-catering in a renovated stone barn for \u00a3375 from 16 February. Children are invited to feed the farm's animals, while the nearby village of Llandeilo is filled with boutiques and the renowned chocolate shop, Heavenly.Live like Nottinghamshire's hero at the Clumber Park Hotel (01623 835 333; clumber parkhotel.com) in Sherwood Forest, which has a two-night Robin Hood Experience break for half term; the price of \u00a3299 for two adults and two children sharing a room includes access to the indoor pool and spa, bicycle hire, an introductory archery class and a Go Ape adventure course experience.In Devon, the Dartmouth Golf &amp; Country Club's lodges (0800 043 3669; dgcc.co.uk) sleep six from \u00a3599 per week, B&amp;B with access to the Woodlands Family Theme Park.An active escapeFollow ancient trails on a walking holiday in Portugal. Sunvil Discovery (020 8758 4722; sunvil.co.uk/alentejo) has seven nights in the cool but sunny (10-15C) Alentejo, with family-friendly walks to explore segments of the coastal Fisherman's Way and inland Historical Way. Discover rural villages, deserted beaches and cork-tree forests. Families can plan their own schedules, returning each night to the Casa da Eira apartment; the price of \u00a31,865 for two adults and two children includes flights from Heathrow to Lisbon on 10 February, car hire, maps and accommodation.Thrill the family with a chilly escape to Romania. Explore (0844 499 0901; explore.co.uk) has a five-day trip in the Transylvanian Alps; the price of \u00a3693 per adult includes flights from London on 20 February.Freewheel Holidays (0116 255 8417; freewheel holidays.co.uk) offers a four-night, self-guided cycle tour on the unspoiled south-west coast of Sardinia for \u00a3499 per person, flights excluded.Who said that?\"Experience, travel \u2013 these are as education in themselves\" \u2013 Euripides, Greek playwright\"Travel, in the younger sort, is a part of education; in the elder, a part of experience.\" \u2013 Sir Francis Bacon\"Without new experiences, something inside of us sleeps. The sleeper must awaken.\" \u2013 Frank Herbert, American science-fiction writerSlope off to the mountainsAs many families know to their considerable cost, February half term is peak week for ski holidays. To try to keep the price within bounds, aim for a cheap destination \u2013 such as Bulgaria and the resort of Borovets, ideal for beginners with its gentle green and blue runs and affordable English-speaking ski school. Neilson (0844 879 8155; neilson.co.uk) offers a week at the Hotel Rila &amp; Studios for \u00a3711 per person for a family of four, including flights from Gatwick on 16 February and half-board.In Austria, Crystal Ski (0871 231 2256; crystalski.co.uk) has a week's all-inclusive at the Hotel Hofer in Kitzbuhel for \u00a3677 per person (based on a family of four), including flights from Glasgow on 16 February.","There are 121 ski areas in Austria's Tyrol region. Some of them are very small: the skiing at Hoch Imst, above the Inn Valley, about 50 kilometres west of Innsbruck, amounts to no more than nine kilometres of pistes, for example. Some are quite substantial: at St Anton, about 45 kilometres further along the valley, the skiing stretches for 127 kilometres. Tyrol does have still bigger areas such as Ski Welt, where a handful of resorts have made lift connections between their slopes; but such relationships are rarer in Austria than in France, where ski areas have linked up as frequently as couples at a wife-swapping party.For this season, however, two average-size resorts have broken into Tyrol's top 10 biggest ski destinations by installing a new lift. The gondola, which cost \u20ac13.5m, runs up and down the east side of the Alpbach (\"alpine stream\") valley, forming a link with the slopes of the Wildsch\u00f6nau (\"wild, beautiful valley\"), near the 1,903m peak of the Schatzberg (\"treasure mountain\"). Opened in mid-December, the lift permits both Alpbach and Wildsch\u00f6nau to boast 145 kilometres of slopes.The names of the two valleys and the mountain on which they meet conjure up a romantic idyll, as does the name of the new area: Ski Juwel. But it has not been all sweetness and light here. Though the new gondola's route is hardly straightforward \u2013 it makes a surprising, 90-degree turn near the midway point \u2013 the installation was swiftly achieved: work began only last June. But reaching the deal for the link was an arduous task of more than a dozen years.British skiers' favourite destinations, France and Austria, have different attractions. France's slopes are bigger and higher, but its purpose-built resorts are often forbidding; in Austria the terrain is more limited, but charming villages and good-value, family-owned hotels compensate for that. Tradition is a big part of their appeal, yet it is easy to forget how far these mountain communities have come. Some have endured for 1,000 years, mainly as the home of hill farmers and \u2013 for a while \u2013 miners extracting minerals. They now have big hotels, fast ski-lifts, Wi-Fi zones and flashy nightclubs, and attract guests from all over Europe, but for most of their history these villages were impoverished, isolated places whose people were suspicious of outsiders, particularly those in the next valley.Alpbach village dates back to at least 1150, but only in 1926 did it become accessible by road. A British Army major named Billy Patterson, who came across the place in the 1950s while stationed near by, gave it such a boost in the UK that at one time 25 per cent of Alpbach's skiers were British (though today it is more of a German stronghold). Locals have a high opinion of their village, but so do others: when Austria's ORTF television station held a competition in 1983 to find the country's most beautiful village, Alpbach won. It owes its attraction in large part to a bylaw passed in 1953 requiring all new buildings to follow the traditional architectural style, with a ground floor of concrete or stone and wooden-clad fa\u00e7ades above (to a maximum of three stories). The place is not cluttered with ski lifts, because the main base for Ski Juwel is down the road at Inneralpbach.The next valley, Wildsch\u00f6nau, is more pragmatic \u2013 necessarily so since it has four separate villages. Regular shuttle buses link Niederau, the main village, and little Oberau with Auffach, from where lifts climb up the Schatzberg; and a ride on the bus makes it clear that this is an area devoted more to commerce than to strict planning controls. Local heritage goes largely uncelebrated, except in Oberau's Kellerwirt hotel and restaurant, which is a history lesson in itself.Here, in a building whose origins go back to the mid-12th century (when it was a monastery), you can eat and drink in a wood-panelled bar which was once a courtroom, or in a vaulted former wine cellar with a host, Hans Keller, whose family has owned the establishment since 1826. The drink most appropriate to the location is a turnip Schnapps which, thanks to a royal warrant, is made exclusively in the Wildsch\u00f6nau valley. Once you get past the hint of silage on the nose, it is rather good.Both valleys established a niche in the Austrian skiing market: Wildsch\u00f6nau as a cheap-and-cheerful, lively destination, and Alpbach as a classier resort with slightly more challenging skiing. But in a competitive market, niches became less viable. Alpbach's slopes are visible from the Auffach area, and it was clear that the appeal of both valleys could be broadened; so talks about a lift link began back in 2000.Forward-looking Wildsch\u00f6nau, where Austria's first chairlift was apparently built in 1945, always made the running. Its desire for the proposed gondola was greater: the bigger of the two resorts, it had more guest-beds to fill (about 8,500 to Alpbach's 3,500) and the link would give it access to the latter's trickier slopes. More conservative Alpbach (which didn't get its first chairlift until 1960) was less enthusiastic, concerned that its image might be tarnished by crowds of skiers from less-exclusive Wildsch\u00f6nau.Unfortunately, the gondola would run entirely across Alpbach territory, so planning consent, capital investment and local permissions all had to come from members of that community. The reason why the gondola takes its peculiar, L-shaped route up the Schatzberg is that a farmer whose fields lay on the direct route refused to let it pass over them.A bigger obstacle emerged at Alpbach's mayoral election in 2005: it was won by a candidate who had pledged to block the gondola. Thereafter, progress was very slow until pressure from the regional authorities led the mayor to change his mind. Finally, agreement was reached, with the unusual condition that Wildsch\u00f6nau would pay half the cost of a lift built in a rival's valley. There will, ultimately, be a piste running down the same slope once the exact route and funding can be agreed; but, for now, you can ski only 2km down from Schatzberg to the gondola's mid-station, and must ride the rest of the way down.Ski Juwel is already a success: although the gondola added 10 per cent to local lift-pass prices, it boosted sales by 20 per cent. But what is it like to ski? Some say that when two small areas are linked the likely outcome is merely duplication, not a proper, big ski area with a range of types of terrain; and they might take Ski Juwel as a case in point. The skiing is consistently pleasant, sometimes invigorating, and the views are varied and gratifying. But the terrain rarely goes beyond the intermediate range.There are, however, other things to be said in the area's favour. The new eight-seat gondola takes skiers on a proper journey, from one valley to the next; and the marked difference between them makes that journey all the more interesting, at least for skiers willing to explore the villages. Holidays to Ski Juwel are good value, too, particularly in Wildsch\u00f6nau where Crystal offers a week at the four-star-plus Sonnschein, in Niederau, from \u00a3565. Transfers from Innsbruck take little more than an hour, and some of Wildsch\u00f6nau's shuttle buses make the 20-minute trip from Niederau to the nearby mainline station at W\u00f6rgl.Finally, the qualities that attract British skiers to Austria \u2013 charm, authenticity \u2013 are better displayed in small communities than in busy resorts such as St Anton and Ischgl. My fellow skier and I were guided around Ski Juwel by Max Schellhorn, a ski instructor, holiday-apartment owner, farmer and \u2013 in summer \u2013 JCB driver. On the chairlift down to Auffach from the new gondola we asked about his family. There, straight ahead, was one sister's house; below the lift was his other sister, waving at us from her balcony (as instructed by Schellhorn on his mobile).On our way back to the hotel, he suggested, we might stop at the farmers' produce shop in Oberau to buy some butter made from his cows' milk by his mother. Sadly, Anna's Butter was out of stock, but that didn't really matter. The point had been made: although Ski Juwel's ski area is now one of the 10 biggest in Tyrol, its villages still seem delightfully small and local.Travel EssentialsGetting thereCrystal (0871 231 2256; ) has a week at the four-star Hotel Sonnschein in Niederau from \u00a3565pp, including Thomson Airways flights from Gatwick, transfers and half board. A six-day lift pass starts at \u00a3176. The nearest airport is Innsbruck, served by easyJet (0843 104 5000; ) from Bristol, Liverpool and Gatwick, BA (0844 493 0787 ) from Gatwick and Monarch (08719 40 50 40; ) from Manchester.crystalski.co.ukeasyJet.comba.comflymonarch.comMore informationSki Jewel: skijuwel.comMax Schellhorn: ferienwohnung-schellhorn.at","Oman seduces. This wedge of mountain-fringed desert has a rich and complicated past. It is the oldest independent state in the Arab world. As a result, it displays multiple influences \u2013 Arabian, Indian and, uniquely for the region, African. After fending off the Portuguese in the 17th century, Oman grew as a trading empire stretching from Balochistan, on the coast of what\u00a0is now Pakistan, as far south as Zanzibar in\u00a0modern-day Tanzania.So far, so unusual. Many Omanis still keep links of family and culture with the country's former imperial outposts: if your linguistic skills are up to scratch, you can have a fine old time eavesdropping in Swahili or Balochi, alongside the distinctively loping Omani dialect of Arabic. Even the architectural language speaks of historical continuity, with few Dubai-style carbuncles breaking low-rise urban skylines of whitewashed domes and flat roofs.Notwithstanding vast deserts, coconut palms and a sawtooth horizon of mountain crags, Oman is at heart a maritime nation, gazing out at the Indian Ocean from behind 2,000km of coastline. Omanis claim the legendary 1,001 Nights adventurer Sinbad the Sailor as one of their own. Shipyards at Sur are still turning out replica wooden dhows of old.From Dhofar in the south, where aromatic frankincense was shipped out to ancient Rome, to the steep-walled fjords of Musandam in the north, access to open sea has shaped the national character. For a taste of maritime heritage Bales Worldwide (0844 488 1153; ) has an 11-day, tailor-made trip from Muscat to Dubai; this sticks largely to the coast, including time in Sur and \u2013 unusually \u2013 Sohar, a once-great trading harbour. From \u00a33,595 including flights.balesworldwide.comYet, oddly for a country with such genial, outgoing charm, Oman's tourist industry tends to plump for the default Arabian option of targeting the super-wealthy, carving out opulent hideaway resorts in formerly pristine beauty spots.At Zighy Bay in the north, Six Senses runs a fabulously high-end beach and spa resort (00 968 2673 5555; ) in an isolated cove. There are now several more. The new Sifawy Hotel (00 968 2474 9111; ) offers boutique-style comfort in a remote, sandy bay on the rocky coast outside Muscat. To the south, a luxury Marriott beachfront resort (00 968 2326 8245; ) sprawls beside the fishing village of Mirbat.sixsenses.comsifawyhotel.commarriott.co.ukIn terms of design chic, Muscat's exceptional Chedi hotel (00 968 2452 4400; ghmhotels.com) remains top dog \u2013 a zen-like oasis of Asian style looking out on to one of the city's white-sand beaches. Expressions Holidays (01752 878050; ) offers a week at the Chedi from \u00a31,330 per person, including flights from Heathrow and breakfast.expressionsholidays.co.ukBut the best of Oman lies elsewhere. The country rests on a bedrock of unforced character and a sense of self. Omanis are so genially accessible, and their landscapes so eye-stretchingly stupendous, there's really no need to spend a fortune. All you need to do is go.Pining for the fjordsThe Musandam Peninsula has sheer cliffs that plunge into the translucent blue waters of the Gulf. Its hidden fjords shelter dolphin pods. Ferries and domestic flights link Muscat with Khasab, Musandam's sleepy main town, set behind its harbour-front fort. Responsible Travel (01273 600030; ) has a seven-night itinerary that takes in fishing trips with locals, lunch in village houses, two nights on a dhow to the isolated northern hamlet of Kumzar and a 4x4 mountain excursion. It costs from \u00a31,699 excluding flights. Musandam is also one of the Middle East's top diving destinations, with rays and sharks among coral formations and dramatic rock walls. Dive Worldwide (01962 302087; ) has a seven-night trip with two boat dives out of Khasab each day, from \u00a31,325 including flights from London.responsibletravel.comdiveworldwide.comIn peak conditionThe immense Hajar mountains divide Muscat's coastal plain from the interior deserts. Their most accessible peak is Jabal Akhdar (\"Green Mountain\" in Arabic, though it's chiefly sun-scorched limestone); alongside, Jabal Shams soars over 3,000 metres. KE Adventure (017687 73966; ) has nine days of walking and trekking through this epic landscape, including nights under canvas either side of the Balcony Trail, leading above Oman's stunning \"Grand Canyon\", and the remote coastal Fisherman's Walk. Prices from \u00a31,475, including flights from London. If you prefer two wheels, German company Oman Bike Tours (00 49 89 6243 9791; ) features a six-day off-road motorbike itinerary, based at its camp in the rugged Wadi Bani Awf canyon. From \u20ac1,390, with motorbike hire and airport transfers, but not flights.keadventure.comomanbiketours.comRediscover your spirit of adventureMost group tours include a night at a tourist camp among the dunes of the Wahiba Sands, often alongside an excursion to watch turtles emerging from the ocean to lay their eggs on nearby Ras Al-Jinz beach. The vast Empty Quarter desert \u2013 a sea of sand that stretches across Arabia \u2013 is harder to access. A few expedition firms organise trips, but if you're not up to a multi-day desert traverse, talk to specialists Al-Fawaz Tours (00 968 2329 4324; ): it has links with local Dhofari desert guides and can fix up wilderness camping on the fly. Prices start at \u00a3325 or so, for up to four people. Similarly, Muscat Diving and Adventure Centre (00 968 2454 3002; ) can book anything from a two-hour boat trip out of Muscat to watch spinner dolphins leap (from \u00a325 per person) to trekking, mountain biking or scuba diving.alfawaztours.comholiday-in-oman.comNo Boundaries Oman () offers a four-night deep-sea fishing excursion based at a remote lodge on the south-east coast, from \u00a31,099 per person, including boat charter, gear, transfers and all\u00a0meals.noboundariesoman.comSouk it and seeConstrained by coastal mountains, the capital, Muscat, spreads out in a narrow coastal ribbon for 30km. The main souk, a tangle of frankincense-scented lanes selling everything from gold to lizard skins, runs behind the harbour quarter of Muttrah, which also has 19th-century merchants' residences overlooked by a Portuguese fort.The Muscat Festival, running until 28 February, features heritage displays, fashion shows, food festivals and concerts at various venues around the city ().muscat-festival.comVoyages Jules Verne (0845 166 7003; ) has a week's tour including time in Muscat and the south as well as the historic former capital, Nizwa, a traditionally minded town in the nearby mountains, from \u00a31,499 per person, including flights.vjv.comAway with the dolphinsDolphin-watching and dhow cruises through Musandam's fjords will appeal to children and teens alike \u2013 but you may prefer to simply hole up by the sea.Occupying a cliff-lined sandy cove on the edge of Muscat, Shangri La's Barr Al Jissah resort (00 968 2477 6666; ) includes the family-friendly Al Waha hotel. Set around palm-shaded swimming pools, it hosts a kids' club and a choice of restaurants, as well as a spa-treatment centre. Four nights' B&amp;B during the spring half-term will cost from \u00a3791pp through Kuoni (0844 488 0310; kuoni.co.uk); that includes flights from Manchester.shangri- la.comFurther up the coast at the Millennium Mussanah resort, Oman Holiday Architects (01242 253073; ) has a\u00a0week's stay with\u00a0B&amp;B for two adults and two children, which includes car rental and flights from London, all for \u00a34,075.omanholidayarchitects.netTravel EssentialsGetting thereOman Air (0844 482 2309; ) flies daily from Heathrow to Muscat; returns start around \u00a3475pp. British Airways (0844 493 0787; ), which also flies from Heathrow, stops in Abu Dhabi on both the outbound and return flights.omanair.comba.comFor northern Oman, including the Musandam Peninsula, Dubai is an excellent gateway \u2013 not least because fares are lower thanks to all the competition; fares below \u00a3400 non-stop from Heathrow are often available. A bus from Dubai to Muscat takes about six hours, for a fare of 90 dirhams (\u00a316).Buy a visa on arrival at the road border or the airport: 10 days for five rials (\u00a38) or a month for 20 rials.Getting aroundIt can be time consuming. Many places are hard to reach by bus (). Self-drive is possible, but outside urban areas road quality, mountain gradients and signage present a challenge. A 4x4 with a local driver may be a better bet.ontcoman.com"," ThingvellirHotel IonThis adventure hotel opens tomorrow on the outskirts of Thingvellir National Park. In tribute to the landscape, rooms feature graphics of pure-bred Icelandic horses and sidetables carved from chunks of wood. The Silfra Restaurant specialises in Nordic cuisine, while the Northern Lights Bar flaunts floor-to-ceiling windows in the hope of glimpsing the Arctic's seasonal spectacular. Activities range from glacier tours and white-water rafting to fishing in glistening fjords.Hotel Ion, Thingvellir, Selfoss (00 354 482 3415; ). Doubles from Isk19,900 (\u00a398), including breakfast.ioniceland.is GrimsnesGrimsborgirGrimsborgir offers a luxury base for those tracing the Golden Circle route. There are two doubles in the main house and some posh apartments and split-level cottages with kitchens and outdoor hot tubs elsewhere. A pretty restaurant with white-washed walls, a piano and views of the grassy plains, unites guests with homemade pastries each morning and hearty dishes at night. The gushing hot springs at Geysir, waterfalls of Gullfoss and beauty of Thingvellir are all within reach by car.Grimsborgir, Asborgir, Selfoss (00 354 555 7878; ). Doubles from \u20ac98, including breakfast.grimsborgir.com SnaefellsnesHotel BudirFirst opened on the Snaefellsnes Peninsula in 1948, the Hotel Budir was completely burnt down in 2001, before reopening two years later. Far removed from any light pollution, it has long been a favourite base for spotting the Northern Lights. Its homely rooms feature traditional furnishings, earthy colour tones and prints of Icelandic wildlife. The restaurant hauls unusual treats such as ling (Atlantic cod) on to plates each night alongside Icelandic moss and kale.Hotel Budir, Snaefellsnes Peninsula (00 354 435 6700; ). Doubles from Isk21,500 (\u00a3106), including breakfast.hotelbudir.is EgilsstadirEyvindaraThis cluster of woodland cabins overlooks a scenic fjord on the far east coast. The feel is a little Center Parcs, but the look is altogether Icelandic, with 10 new double rooms and some self-catering cottages in a series of crimson-coloured huts. Some have small kitchenettes, but those that don't can make use of the communal restaurant. Spend days fishing for trout and salmon in glacial waters, walking amid wildflowers or relaxing in quiet seclusion back at the lodge.Eyvindara, Egilsstadir (00 354 471 1200; ). Doubles from Isk16,400 (\u00a381), including breakfast.eyvindara.is HellaHotel RangaThick log walls shield guests from the elements at Hotel Ranga, which stands on a wild windswept plain. There are 44 doubles and seven World Pavilion suites inside that nod to different corners of the globe. Choose Africa for thatched roofs, animal hides and tribal art, or Australia for surf boards, beach motifs and a didgeridoo. The restaurant dishes up salmon from the River Ranga, alongside fermented shark and reindeer carpaccio. Outside, dogsledding, snowmobiling and 4x4 tours beckon.Hotel Ranga, Gamli Sudurlandsvegur, Hella (00 354 487 5700; ). Doubles from \u20ac194, including breakfast.hotelranga.is HvalfjordurGlymurThis collection of rooms and suites creeps up the banks of the Hvalfjordur or \"whale fjord\", which flows down to form Iceland's highest waterfall. There are 22 split-level rooms and some larger suites to choose from, but the best are the six new villas, which come with broad decks, private hot tubs, built-in kitchens and designer furniture. Elsewhere, there's an honesty bar, restaurant and lounge with weird and wonderful artefacts, collected by the owners on their travels.Glymur, Hvalfjordur, Simi (00 354 430 3100; ). Doubles from \u20ac205, including breakfast.hotelglymur.is"]},{"x":0.339148188586368,"y":0.339215931560839,"no_docs":14,"words":[{"prob":0.000226111493756367,"word":"uk"},{"prob":0.00270691379344431,"word":"london"},{"prob":1.30407496830777e-05,"word":"snow"},{"prob":2.93068373442052e-05,"word":"people"},{"prob":0.000921396061208944,"word":"language"},{"prob":1.30407496830777e-05,"word":"north"},{"prob":6.20735254509922e-05,"word":"welsh"}],"docs":["The Met Office has issued a rare red \"take action\" alert for tomorrow. It covers south-east Wales but snow and strong winds are expected to bring widespread disruption across much of the UK..Click here or on the image above to view the galleryThe Welsh alert warns of blizzards - 20-30cm of snow is likely with strong winds causing drifts. The notice covers from 3am tomorrow until 9pm.A yellow \"be aware\" alert for snow covers virtually all of England,\u00a0 Wales and Northern Ireland - as well as southern and eastern Scotland. Drivers are being warned of widespread snowfall of up to 10cm.Although the heaviest snow falls over Friday, there will be some showers on Saturday as well - with widespread ice alerts into next week.\"You should be aware of the risk,\" said spokesman Robin Thwaytes. He said south-west England, south Wales, the West Midlands and central southern England would be worst affected. An amber severe weather warning has been issued.Met Office\"You should seriously consider whether to travel - it will be disruptive.\"There would be widespread falls of 5 to 10cm with up to 20cm on higher ground. He said some snow would arrive in London but it should not be as disruptive.Snow will arrive in the south-west overnight, said Laura Caldwell, a forecaster with the MeteoGroup weather division of the Press Association - with heavy winds driving it through Wales and the Midlands by morning.It will reach East Anglia by lunchtime and arrive in Scotland later \"but it will be a lovely day in north-west Scotland.\"For much of the UK however, the temperature will struggle to reach a maximum -1C or -2C - and it will feel several degrees colder in string, gusty winds.There will be some light snow lingering on Saturday - particularly in the East. Maximum temperatures will struggle to climb above freezing, but winds will be lighter.Steve Crosthwaite, head of the agency's National Traffic Operations Centre, urged drivers to allow more time for morning travel.\"During periods of severe\u00a0weather\u00a0we also suggest people consider whether their journey is essential,\" he added.\"They may want to delay their travel until conditions improve and to allow our winter fleet the chance to treat the roads.\"London Fire Brigade urged caution during the \"Arctic blast\".Its warning follows two serious fires this week caused by householders taking extreme measures to keep warm.Yesterday, fire crews were called to rescue an elderly man from a serious blaze in Wembley, north London, which is believed to have been caused by a halogen heater being placed too close to flammable items.Last week, firefighters battled flames in Fulham, west London, after an electric blanket was left on for the weekend.British Gas said it was expecting a \"huge spike of activity\" for its home service engineers this weekend, predicting they would attend around 20,000 call-outs.Matthew Bateman, managing director of the firm's home services branch, said: \"With the recent mild\u00a0weather\u00a0it's easy to understand why people may have thought winter was behind them, but over the weekend we've had calls from a huge number of customers experiencing problems with their heating or hot water.\"* Louise Holder, Prinicipal at commercial law firm EMW, warns: \u201cAll employees have a duty to make reasonable efforts to get to work, even if the conditions are difficult. These efforts might include waiting much longer than normal for public transport, a taxi, car-sharing, or walking. Looking out of the window and deciding to make no effort to get to work at all is simply not an option.\u201d* The latest cold snap may leave Britons shivering in their snow boots but it has nothing on the chill of 1963. That year the UK had one of its worst winters in living memory. The snow started on Boxing Day 1962 and the big freeze lasted until March. Lakes and rivers froze across the country amid biting temperatures and there were even patches of ice on the sea. Huge ice boulders formed on beaches and blizzards caused snowdrifts up to 20ft (6m) deep.","The Met Office has issued a rare red \"take action\" alert for tomorrow. It covers south-east Wales but snow and strong winds are expected to bring widespread disruption across much of the UK..Click here or on the image above to view the galleryThe Welsh alert warns of blizzards - 20-30cm of snow is likely with strong winds causing drifts. The notice covers from 3am tomorrow until 9pm.A yellow \"be aware\" alert for snow covers virtually all of England,\u00a0 Wales and Northern Ireland - as well as southern and eastern Scotland. Drivers are being warned of widespread snowfall of up to 10cm.Although the heaviest snow falls over Friday, there will be some showers on Saturday as well - with widespread ice alerts into next week.\"You should be aware of the risk,\" said spokesman Robin Thwaytes. He said south-west England, south Wales, the West Midlands and central southern England would be worst affected. An amber severe weather warning has been issued.Met Office\"You should seriously consider whether to travel - it will be disruptive.\"There would be widespread falls of 5 to 10cm with up to 20cm on higher ground. He said some snow would arrive in London but it should not be as disruptive.Snow will arrive in the south-west overnight, said Laura Caldwell, a forecaster with the MeteoGroup weather division of the Press Association - with heavy winds driving it through Wales and the Midlands by morning.It will reach East Anglia by lunchtime and arrive in Scotland later \"but it will be a lovely day in north-west Scotland.\"For much of the UK however, the temperature will struggle to reach a maximum -1C or -2C - and it will feel several degrees colder in string, gusty winds.There will be some light snow lingering on Saturday - particularly in the East. Maximum temperatures will struggle to climb above freezing, but winds will be lighter.Steve Crosthwaite, head of the agency's National Traffic Operations Centre, urged drivers to allow more time for morning travel.\"During periods of severe\u00a0weather\u00a0we also suggest people consider whether their journey is essential,\" he added.\"They may want to delay their travel until conditions improve and to allow our winter fleet the chance to treat the roads.\"London Fire Brigade urged caution during the \"Arctic blast\".Its warning follows two serious fires this week caused by householders taking extreme measures to keep warm.Yesterday, fire crews were called to rescue an elderly man from a serious blaze in Wembley, north London, which is believed to have been caused by a halogen heater being placed too close to flammable items.Last week, firefighters battled flames in Fulham, west London, after an electric blanket was left on for the weekend.British Gas said it was expecting a \"huge spike of activity\" for its home service engineers this weekend, predicting they would attend around 20,000 call-outs.Matthew Bateman, managing director of the firm's home services branch, said: \"With the recent mild\u00a0weather\u00a0it's easy to understand why people may have thought winter was behind them, but over the weekend we've had calls from a huge number of customers experiencing problems with their heating or hot water.\"* Louise Holder, Prinicipal at commercial law firm EMW, warns: \u201cAll employees have a duty to make reasonable efforts to get to work, even if the conditions are difficult. These efforts might include waiting much longer than normal for public transport, a taxi, car-sharing, or walking. Looking out of the window and deciding to make no effort to get to work at all is simply not an option.\u201d* The latest cold snap may leave Britons shivering in their snow boots but it has nothing on the chill of 1963. That year the UK had one of its worst winters in living memory. The snow started on Boxing Day 1962 and the big freeze lasted until March. Lakes and rivers froze across the country amid biting temperatures and there were even patches of ice on the sea. Huge ice boulders formed on beaches and blizzards caused snowdrifts up to 20ft (6m) deep.","The big freeze across the UK is here to stay, with more snow expected next week.With travel chaos across the country and Britain's busiest airport being likened to a \"refugee camp\" amid more than 110 cancelled flights, forecasters predicted further misery in the coming days.Tonight, a major search ended when six climbers were located after some of their group went missing in an avalanche at Glencoe in the Scottish Highlands.One woman said to be seriously injured was taken to Belford hospital in Fort William and a male climber was discovered safe and well.Police would not confirm the conditions of those who had been missing and would not say if there had been any fatalities.Following Friday's deluge of snow, much of today's snowfall was limited to the North East of England and the east of Scotland.But tomorrow a blanket of snow is expected to fall across more of the nation, hitting London and the South East of England first before moving north.Laura Caldwell, of MeteoGroup, the weather division of the Press Association, said: \"There will be a few snow showers but heavier snow moving into the south of England and spreading into the Midlands, north east Wales, East Anglia and central England.\"There will be a quite significant accumulation and it will be seen first in London and the South East before moving north later in the day.\"Freezing temperatures which have chilled the UK for the past week will also combine, with more snow in northern England as next week begins, Ms Caldwell added.\"It is not going to be getting warmer any time soon,\" she said.Today, there were angry scenes at London's Heathrow airport as travellers had to sleep on the floor for a second day after flights continued to be hit by the weather.Simon Calder, travel editor of the Independent, painted a bleak picture, saying the scene was like \"a refugee camp\".Frustrated passengers claimed they were not given enough information as at least 67 departures were grounded and 33 arrivals cancelled.Tempers frayed in Terminal 5, with accusations of queue-jumping in the lengthy lines at check-in desks.Steve Greenwood, from Yorkshire, who was travelling to Seoul with his wife, shouted at a group of passengers, saying they \"just push in where they want\".Mr Greenwood was one of a number of passengers hitting out at British Airways, adding: \"BA stands for bloody awful.\"There will be a reduced flight schedule tomorrow with an estimated 260 cancellations.BA and the airport insisted they were doing everything they could in difficult circumstances.Travellers at regional airports including Leeds Bradford, Humberside and Newcastle were also frustrated by delays and disruption caused by the wintry weather.Liverpool John Lennon and Manchester airports were running normally but advised passengers to check with their airlines.Train passengers did not fare much better, with reduced services across the country.Virgin Trains cancelled a number of services from the capital to Birmingham and Manchester, and others were delayed.The freezing temperatures also prompted motoring organisations to issue warnings.Darron Burness, the AA's head of special operations, said: \"With the snow compacting down and turning icy, we're likely to see treacherous driving conditions throughout the weekend.\"Any fresh snow on top will just add to the problems.\"The RAC said it had dealt with nearly 9,000 breakdowns - 10% more than usual.Spokesman Simon Williams said: \"Large numbers of people undoubtedly decided not to drive yesterday, which meant we coped very well, particularly as we had so many patrols on duty.\"On the whole we managed to get to people very quickly despite the conditions, but there were obviously some extreme cases in urban areas due to traffic congestion.\"We attended double the amount of accidents that we would do normally.\"Today the roads are still treacherous, so anyone deciding to travel on them should do so with caution and adjust their driving to the conditions accordingly.\"The Met Office has issued yellow warnings for ice over much of the country - and a red, severe warning for South Wales which experienced the worst of the weather.Seven passengers were taken to hospital after a double-decker bus collided with two cars and ploughed into a garden, Humberside Fire and Rescue Service said.Two people in one of the cars were also treated for chest pains following the crash on the A165 in Coniston, near Hull, where several inches of snow has fallen.Nearby, a man is believed to have suffered an electric shock after tripping over a power cable which was hidden by snow, Humberside Fire and Rescue service said.He was taken to hospital for checks after stumbling on the 110-volt wire from a main generator on an industrial site in the Preston area of Hull yesterday afternoon.A teenager fell 150ft down a steep embankment in a sledging accident and escaped with just a broken leg today.The 16-year-old was playing in the snow on Blackford Hill, in Edinburgh, when his sledge ran out of control.A spokeswoman for Lothian &amp; Borders Fire and Rescue said crews were unable to access the hill in their fire engines and had to attend to the incident on foot.PA","The company formerly known as BAA is to sell Stansted airport to the Manchester Airports group for \u00a31.5 billion.The deal, announced last night, will mean that BAA - now known as Heathrow Airport Holdings - will be responsible for just four UK airports compared with its original seven.The remaining sites are Heathrow, Southampton, Aberdeen and Glasgow.The sale is expected to close by the end of February 2013.BAA's airport ownership was brought into question when the Office of Fair Trading referred the company's holding to the Competition Commission (CC).After a long inquiry the CC ruled that BAA's airport ownership was uncompetitive.Criticising the company's performance, the commission said that BAA must sell Gatwick and Stansted and one of either Edinburgh or Glasgow airports.Gatwick had already been sold by the time of the ruling and since then BAA has sold Edinburgh.It held out for some time before finally accepting the ruling on Stansted - mounting a succession of ultimately unsuccessful legal challenges.Heathrow chief executive Colin Matthews said: \"Stansted airport and its people have been part of our company for a long time.\"It has been named by passengers as 'the world's best airport for low-cost airlines' for two consecutive years at the Skytrax World Airport Awards, and we are proud of its achievements.\"He went on: \"We wish the new owners every success and are confident the airport will continue to flourish. We will continue to focus on improving Heathrow, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Southampton airports.\"Manchester Airports Group (MAG) owns and operates Manchester, East Midlands and Bournemouth airports.MAG also includes the commercial property company, MAG Developments, which has a \u00a3350 million portfolio across the three airports and is leading the \u00a3650 million Enterprise Zone development, Airport City, at Manchester.MAG also runs businesses in car parking, airport security, firefighting, engineering, advertising and motor transport.The group's three airports and property business contribute around \u00a33.2 billion to the UK.MAG had been one of the bidders for Gatwick when BAA put it up for sale while the CC inquiry was going on but it lost out to American private equity group Global Infrastructure Partners which now also runs Edinburgh.Stansted in Essex is London's third busiest airport after Heathrow and Gatwick and is the UK's fourth busiest airport.It handles around 17.5 million passengers and more than 131,000 flights a year.A popular airport for no-frills airlines, Stansted is home to 14 airlines serving more than 150 destinations in 32 countries.More than 10,000 people work at Stansted including 1,400 airport employees.Stansted's pre-tax profits in 2011 amounted to \u00a386.6 million and are estimated to be \u00a394.2 million in 2012.","The big freeze across the UK is here to stay, with more snow expected next week.With travel chaos across the country and Britain's busiest airport being likened to a \"refugee camp\" amid more than 110 cancelled flights, forecasters predicted further misery in the coming days.Tonight, a major search ended when six climbers were located after some of their group went missing in an avalanche at Glencoe in the Scottish Highlands.One woman said to be seriously injured was taken to Belford hospital in Fort William and a male climber was discovered safe and well.Police would not confirm the conditions of those who had been missing and would not say if there had been any fatalities.Following Friday's deluge of snow, much of today's snowfall was limited to the North East of England and the east of Scotland.But tomorrow a blanket of snow is expected to fall across more of the nation, hitting London and the South East of England first before moving north.Laura Caldwell, of MeteoGroup, the weather division of the Press Association, said: \"There will be a few snow showers but heavier snow moving into the south of England and spreading into the Midlands, north east Wales, East Anglia and central England.\"There will be a quite significant accumulation and it will be seen first in London and the South East before moving north later in the day.\"Freezing temperatures which have chilled the UK for the past week will also combine, with more snow in northern England as next week begins, Ms Caldwell added.\"It is not going to be getting warmer any time soon,\" she said.Today, there were angry scenes at London's Heathrow airport as travellers had to sleep on the floor for a second day after flights continued to be hit by the weather.Simon Calder, travel editor of the Independent, painted a bleak picture, saying the scene was like \"a refugee camp\".Frustrated passengers claimed they were not given enough information as at least 67 departures were grounded and 33 arrivals cancelled.Tempers frayed in Terminal 5, with accusations of queue-jumping in the lengthy lines at check-in desks.Steve Greenwood, from Yorkshire, who was travelling to Seoul with his wife, shouted at a group of passengers, saying they \"just push in where they want\".Mr Greenwood was one of a number of passengers hitting out at British Airways, adding: \"BA stands for bloody awful.\"There will be a reduced flight schedule tomorrow with an estimated 260 cancellations.BA and the airport insisted they were doing everything they could in difficult circumstances.Travellers at regional airports including Leeds Bradford, Humberside and Newcastle were also frustrated by delays and disruption caused by the wintry weather.Liverpool John Lennon and Manchester airports were running normally but advised passengers to check with their airlines.Train passengers did not fare much better, with reduced services across the country.Virgin Trains cancelled a number of services from the capital to Birmingham and Manchester, and others were delayed.The freezing temperatures also prompted motoring organisations to issue warnings.Darron Burness, the AA's head of special operations, said: \"With the snow compacting down and turning icy, we're likely to see treacherous driving conditions throughout the weekend.\"Any fresh snow on top will just add to the problems.\"The RAC said it had dealt with nearly 9,000 breakdowns - 10% more than usual.Spokesman Simon Williams said: \"Large numbers of people undoubtedly decided not to drive yesterday, which meant we coped very well, particularly as we had so many patrols on duty.\"On the whole we managed to get to people very quickly despite the conditions, but there were obviously some extreme cases in urban areas due to traffic congestion.\"We attended double the amount of accidents that we would do normally.\"Today the roads are still treacherous, so anyone deciding to travel on them should do so with caution and adjust their driving to the conditions accordingly.\"The Met Office has issued yellow warnings for ice over much of the country - and a red, severe warning for South Wales which experienced the worst of the weather.Seven passengers were taken to hospital after a double-decker bus collided with two cars and ploughed into a garden, Humberside Fire and Rescue Service said.Two people in one of the cars were also treated for chest pains following the crash on the A165 in Coniston, near Hull, where several inches of snow has fallen.Nearby, a man is believed to have suffered an electric shock after tripping over a power cable which was hidden by snow, Humberside Fire and Rescue service said.He was taken to hospital for checks after stumbling on the 110-volt wire from a main generator on an industrial site in the Preston area of Hull yesterday afternoon.A teenager fell 150ft down a steep embankment in a sledging accident and escaped with just a broken leg today.The 16-year-old was playing in the snow on Blackford Hill, in Edinburgh, when his sledge ran out of control.A spokeswoman for Lothian &amp; Borders Fire and Rescue said crews were unable to access the hill in their fire engines and had to attend to the incident on foot.PA","Why does Manchester want another airport \u2013 surely it\u2019s already got one?Manchester Airports Group (MAG) actually owns three airports already: Manchester, East Midlands and Bournemouth. MAG is a fascinating organisation, because it\u2019s local-authority owned: the majority by Manchester City Council, the remaining 45 per cent by the other nine boroughs of Greater Manchester. Yet MAG has much bigger ambitions: it tried to buy Gatwick in 2009, and has now gained control of Stansted. In airports, scale is everything, and London is the world hub of aviation \u2013 so Manchester wanted to be part of it. The deal involves an Australian fund, Industry Funds Management, taking just over one-third of the expanded company, and getting half the voting rights.Put the deal into perspectiveManchester Airports Group has paid roughly the same for Stansted as Gatwick\u2019s new owners paid for an airport which is arguably, from an investment point of view, probably 50 per cent more attractive.\u00a0A year ago Stansted lost its number three position to Manchester, in terms of passenger numbers, so this is an ironic turn of events; if Manchester aims to restore Stansted to the days when it was the fastest growing airport in Europe, it can do so only at its own expense.There\u2019s one really huge airport in the UK, Heathrow, which has as many passengers than the next biggest three put together \u2013 Gatwick, Manchester and Stansted.\u00a0Stansted occupies a beautiful building, but one with awkward rail links \u2013 the journey by train from central London has actually significantly slowed down in the 20 years since the rail line opened.Of the big four London airports \u2013 the other three being Heathrow, Gatwick and Luton \u2013 Stansted is the furthest from the centre, and also furthest from the key road and rail arteries. It\u2019s only a little bit unfair to describe it as an airport people use because they have to. Manchester Airports Group will be seeking to change all that.What will passengers notice?In the short term, nothing. Stansted is a well-run airport operating at about half its capacity, which means that it is usually uncrowded and tranquil. Longer term, it will have to get much busier if Manchester Airports Group is to realise a reasonable return on investment. The new owners will try to grab traffic initially on short-haul routes from Gatwick and Luton, partly through enticing financial deals - but also by promising excellent customer service. There should be more flights to more interesting places \u2013 and a wider range of airlines. At present three out of four flights at Stansted are on Ryanair.Experience suggests it is unhealthy for any airport to be so dependent on a single airline. The new owners are likely to be talking to easyJet to try to persuade Britain\u2019s biggest low-cost carrier to move more planes to Stansted, and trying to entice every other large European airline. Looking further afield: until now, there hasn\u2019t been any mileage in Stansted aggressively seeking long-haul routes and business travellers, because it would be doing so against the interests of Heathrow \u2013 the dominant partner in the business formerly known as BAA. A few long-haul airlines have come and gone, including the business-class only airlines, MaxJet and Eos, as well as Air Asia X to Malaysia. But if Stansted can find the right airline that needs a fast track to the London market, Heathrow and Gatwick will take notice.Will we see a new route from Manchester to Stansted?No. British Airways, Eastern Airways and Air Berlin all tried to fly profitably between Stansted and Manchester and abandoned the idea.And does this influence where another runway will be built in the London area?The possibility of a second runway at Stansted will certainly be in the plans of MAG, but the airport can basically double in the number of passengers handled before it reachest capacity.\u00a0","As a teenager in Wales in the late Nineties, I was not a fan of Welsh; it was easy to mock and moan about. There was the translation of my village's road sign, so it was both in 'English' and Welsh: Llandegley and Llandgelau. There was Wales's exciting new building, the Millennium Stadium, known in the native tongue as Stadiwm y Mileniwm. Silly!There was missing Channel 4 shows from Six Feet Under to Sex and the City so that we could have Welsh medium S4C instead (it featured a sitcom called Pam Fi Duw?, which translates as 'Why me God?' \u2013 summing up my feelings perfectly). I resented being forced to study Welsh to GCSE \u2013 if I had to do a language, couldn't I do Italian, which would have been useful, as Italy was hot, and sexy, and a long way away\u2026?Fast forward to 2013, and I don't live in Verona, but nor do I live in the Valleys (it's London, predictably). But whether it's age or absence, my feelings towards Welsh have mellowed. I like the different perspective a rural upbringing has given me, and rather wish I was able to say more than \"Wyt ti'n hoffi coffi?\" (\"Do you like coffee?\").The actual usage of minority languages is very slow to change, but hearts and minds can be quicker. Since I left Wales, the visibility of Welsh and other UK minority languages seems to have rocketed; and there's been a burgeoning interest in both localism, and genealogy \u2013 people want to know what their great-grandparents spoke. There has also been a raft of language acts, enshrining rights for speakers of minority languages in law, while our understanding of the benefits of bilingualism has prompted a sea-change in the educational arguments. I have a hunch my feelings are typical of a wider shift in public opinion \u2013 but what difference has that made to minority language-speaking communities around the UK?If you look at the recently-published census results for 2011, not much. The number of people who speak Welsh has actually fallen in the past decade: there were 582,000 speakers in 2001, but 562,000 last year \u2013 a drop from 21 per cent to 19 \u2013 despite an increased population. The census results for Northern Ireland show an increase in Irish speakers, but only by 1 per cent (from 10 per cent up to 11). Data on Gaelic and Cornish is not yet available.The stats were grasped by pressure group Cymdeithas yr Iaith Gymraeg \u2013 The Welsh Language Society \u2013 who promptly declared the language \"faces a crisis\". Cymdeithas was founded in the Sixties as a radical group committed to non-violent direct action to save Welsh (they became infamous for defacing signs in protest at the lack of translation and going to jail for refusing to pay bills where forms were only sent in English). I met a spokesperson, Colin Nosworthy, at the Mochyn Du, a Welsh language-friendly pub in Cardiff (I almost asked for \"Coffi, os gwelwch yn dda\", but bottled it). He likened Cymdeithas' origins and activity to other civil-rights groups: \"I do sometimes describe us as a Greenpeace for the language\".While historically considered by some as the lunatic fringe of language campaigners, Cymdeithas' pressure has helped produce serious gains for the language. Welsh now enjoys official status; public services are obliged to have language schemes and bilingual provision; Welsh education is available from nursery to university; laws protect your right to speak Welsh in the workplace. However, there are still battles.\"The most pressing thing is the future of Welsh-language communities \u2013 experts say, without some communities where Welsh is the main language, the language will struggle,\" says Nosworthy. \"Affordability of housing, planning rules, young people moving away to look for work, economic factors\u2026 all these things are damaging the Welsh language as a community language.\" The census results bear out this fear \u2013 in traditional heartlands, Carmarthenshire and Ceredigion, usage has dropped below 50 per cent.Welsh still has the greatest legislative protection in the UK, however, and it's increasing. Since April last year, Meri Huws has been employed in the new role of Welsh Language Commissioner, investigating complaints about discrimination or lack of services. While she was shocked by the census results, she does point to a shift in attitudes within her lifetime: \"the change has been incredible, in terms of not only acceptance of the language, but a real pride\". Anti-Welsh feeling is in decline \u2013 and part of that is enshrining the language's status in law, she believes.\"It gives a status to the language, and more than protects, it actually develops the language; it gives Welsh speakers in Wales a certain confidence in expecting quality services,\" says Huws. \"There's a social-psychological side to it, as well as the pure statutory side: status and confidence, which lead to more usage.\" Well \u2013 hopefully.The other big success has been Welsh-medium education. The advantages of bilingualism are now well recognised \u2013 there's no evidence a child's English will suffer if they are educated primarily in another language, and they're more likely to pick up further languages. Minority-languages expert, Professor Colin Williams, tells me that at Cardiff University they \"are developing a strategy which sees Welsh in a European context: it's part of European mainstream where trilingualism may be the norm.\"Educational provision, in some areas, now goes way beyond the ineffectual class or two a week I experienced. Pressure group Parents for Welsh Medium Education (RhAG) \u2013 which turned 60 last year \u2013 has been instrumentalf in demanding local authorities provide schooling fully through the medium of Welsh. Their chair, Lynne Davis, explains: \"When children arrive without a word of Welsh, it's astoundingly easy for them to pick it up. The immersion model is used successfully in Wales. The difference between that and one or two hours of Welsh a week is probably marked.\" Estyn, the Welsh school inspectors, concur \u2013 their 2011 annual report concluded that Welsh as a second language, in English-medium schools, wasn't meeting standards: \"Many teachers are not confident enough and lack the knowledge to teach Welsh at an appropriately high level\". No wonder the Welsh Assembly Government funds sabbatical Welsh-learning courses for teachers.So perhaps it's no surprise that people are opting for fully immersive education \u2013 yn Gymraeg (in Welsh). Davis insists the demand is there \u2013 from parents, at least. \"The numbers are obviously increasing, and in places like Cardiff and Newport, we've seen a massive increase in the Welsh-medium education sector in the past 10, 15 years. That's mainly in response to parental demand.\"It's the same story in Scotland \u2013 even if the overall numbers of Gaelic speakers are decreasing, thanks to an ageing population of native speakers, Gaelic-medium schools have become a popular option. No schools are required to teach it, and there's no move to make it mandatory, but Minister for Scotland's Languages, Alasdair Allen, commented \"the number of people who speak Gaelic is around about 60,000, and the population is quite scattered \u2013 it's quite a different situation [to Wales, so] it's not a question of forcing the language on anyone. In education, the biggest problem the government has is \u2026 trying to meet the demand for education, which is in some ways quite a happy situation to be in. Thirty or 40 years ago, no one would have heard Gaelic from a teacher; you've gone from that to a situation where about a third of primary kids in the Western Isles have their education in Gaelic units. Despite what you sometimes read in some papers, Gaelic is not actually that contentious. There's broad public support.\"Fiona Dunn, from the Gaelic department at the University of Glasgow, suggests that \"the whole Gaelic scene in Scotland has changed dramatically in the past 30 years. But that's still fairly recent. Unfortunately, language development is a very long and slow process. People are so quick to\u2026 criticise the money that's being spent on it.\"Cost is always a thorny issue. But most campaigners dismiss it, with prickly disdain: if more people speak Welsh and we employ them, it's no extra cost for them to produce materials also in Welsh; if a child is taught in Gaelic, that's not an extra teacher, it's just one that speaks a different language\u2026This is another hot new topic: minority languages are not about nostalgia for the past or a romanticised Celtic identity, but a skill set. It's a slightly circular argument \u2013 speaking Gaelic is only useful if people are required to provide services in Gaelic, which is likely to come about because of language campaigners \u2013 but it still marks a shift in the terms of engagement. For young learners, a second language becomes another string to the bow in a tough jobs market.\"People see Welsh as a skill set, not an affair of the heart or tribalism or cultural loyalty or nationalism,\" suggests Williams. \"Some students see that as being advantageous for their future employability.\"Shona Masson studied Gaelic at Glasgow after getting interested in the language through Scotland's traditional music scene; she's now employed by the department, where we meet, and where nearly all personal and professional conversations are in Gaelic. \"In the current climate in Scotland there are so many people who are unemployed, but the Gaelic community provides so many jobs, whether it's teachers or in the media, and I don't understand why people would argue against [that].\"Both she and Dunn insist the language is living, vibrant, useful day-to-day: \"I don't see it as this old historical thing that I'm clutching on to because my granny spoke it!\" exclaims Dunn, who first encountered Gaelic at a choir she sang with as a teenager. \"I just feel it is relevant today, actually.\" And, unlike Cymdeithas, she embraces the idea that minority language-speaking communities are changing: \"Now, there'sf more urban communities. We're beginning to see evidence that it's weakening in the Gaelic heartlands, but you're seeing communities emerging in different parts of Scotland, and Glasgow is definitely one of them. I use more Gaelic than I do English.\"Williams echoes this in Cardiff; although not a traditional stronghold, it has enough learners, and bilingual provision, that he can state \"I spend most of my adult life in Cardiff speaking Welsh \u2013 with the doctor, with the dentist, my workplace, entertainment\u2026\".There's a more unlikely example of this in London, home to a vibrant group of Cornish speakers. Cornish is at an earlier stage of its revival, with no exact figures available, though the Cornish Language Partnership \u2013 Keskowethyans an Taves Kernewek \u2013 estimate there are hundreds of fluent speakers, and thousands that have some ability. It is, perhaps, one of the less contentious minority languages in the UK, and its revival has flourished alongside a wider recognition of 'Cornish' as an identity distinct from 'English'.Tony Hak isn't Cornish, but after holidaying there in the Nineties, he got interested in the place names and started a correspondence course in Cornish; when he discovered a class in London, he joined and is now a teacher himself, and was even made a Bard. I met him and his students before an evening class, held at adult-education college City Lit, largely attended by Cornish people who've moved for work but want to maintain their links; it may be more than 250 miles away from Cornwall, but it's the largest class running today.\"There's been a growing sense of Cornish distinctness and identity, no doubt about that,\" Hak agrees. It's good business, too: Hak frequently does translation work for companies who want local, Celtic branding, and he's holding lessons in the Houses of Parliament for politicians who realise that if they can \"stand up in a meeting and say 'Good evening everyone' in Cornish, it'll go down a storm.\"It's far from being compulsory in schools, but about a quarter of primaries offer some Cornish. Pensans Primary School even has it on the curriculum; Sarah Crommay is one of several staff who deliver Cornish one afternoon a week, with the help of children's books developed by The Cornish Language Partnership, Maga. \"Basically the resources were so good \u2013 I'm not a fluent Cornish speaker, but they made it easy for us to deliver an interactive, really fun way of leaning Cornish.\"In Cornwall, the language appears to be a pleasing heritage quirk, a link with a nearly-lost Celtic identity, a celebration of difference\u2026 but minority languages can also be used as a tool for maintaining a divisive sense of difference. So it has long been in Northern Ireland, where speaking Irish was a sure-fire indicator you were Catholic, Nationalist. A friend from County Tyrone recalls hearing people use it, very deliberately, in pubs \u2013 almost as a warning.And while in Wales and Scotland, despite some wariness, the general public are either in support of or indifferent to the indigenous language, in Northern Ireland there is still a faction strongly against it. In a survey carried out by the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure last year, 29 per cent of people were \"against\" Irish language usage in Northern Ireland, with 17 per cent of that \"strongly against\".A major issue for campaigners is the ongoing lack of a language act. \"This is the only part of [the UK] where the primary indigenous language isn't already protected in domestic legislation by a specific act,\" explains Jan Muller of Pobal, an umbrella organisation for the Irish language. This flouts a commitment in the 2006 St Andrews Act, and has prompted concern from the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.But, as Se\u00e1n \u00d3 Coinn, deputy CEO of Foras na Gaeilge \u2013 a body responsible for promoting the Irish language \u2013 explains: \"The fact that legislation would have to be passed by the Executives in the Northern Ireland Assembly will mean that it will have to have support of a majority of Nationalists and Unionists. It's a challenge to see that that could be obtained in the immediate future. Obviously we recognise we're in a particular political situation in the North, which we've seen the workings of very starkly recently. Items of culture and identity tend to become part of the zero sum game, where something that supports one identity or culture is therefore seen to be detracting from another.\"Muller agrees: \"We're still seeing the working of a deep-seated, long, ethnic conflict in the north of Ireland, and that's why the issue of identity, and of language, is still capable of raising people's emotions \u2013 but also being used to do that. It's all very sad really, very retrograde. It's really time to move on and say, the north of Ireland is like anywhere else on these islands, and its language should be valued and protected and shouldn't be this whipping boy for people's political ambitions.\"It's not all gloom, though \u2013 the census showed an increase of around 200,000 Irish speakers. The Continuous Household Survey found that just under a third of Catholics have some knowledge of Irish compared to 2 per cent of Protestants: a low figure, but one that, as \u00d3 Coinn points out, \"is significant in itself \u2013 that equates to 17,386 thousand people\". Just last year saw a groundbreaking new Irish learning initiative in East Belfast and other Unionist areas; even the deputy chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, Judith Gillespie, got in on the act. \u00d3 Coinn suggests \"that's an example of something we might not have expected to happen 10 years ago, maybe even less, five years ago. It shows you how quickly attitudes are changing.\"While becoming fluent in any second language is no quick task, it seems that across the UK, there's a feeling that attitudes, at least, are changing. There will always be some resistance, but the notion which I, like many others, held \u2013 that minority languages are dead or useless \u2013 may well be shifting permanently. Whether that is enough to truly revivify minority languages, in the face of dissipating communities and ageing native speakers, remains to be seen and \u2013 hopefully \u2013 heard.","Two men and two women died in an avalanche in Glencoe in the Scottish Highlands yesterday. The four were part of a group of six climbers descending the Bidean Nam Bian peak when a snow slope is said to have \"broken away\" causing them to fall 500 feet, leaving them buried under two feet of snow and ice.A third man in the group escaped and managed to raise the alarm. He was able to direct mountain rescue teams to the site of the avalanche where they began to search, using dogs. One woman was taken to Belford Hospital in Fort William, where she is being treated for \"serious\" head injuries.Rescue teams and police dogs continued to scour the area and later located four more bodies who were pronounced dead at the scene, a spokesman for the Northern Constabulary said last night. The search and rescue operation involved the Glencoe and Lochaber Mountain Rescue teams, together with police search and rescue units.The tragedy occurred after the Scottish Avalanche Information Service (SAIS) issued a warning that \"human-triggered avalanches are likely\" in the Glencoe area. The risk was rated as \"considerable\" in places. Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's Deputy First Minister, tweeted: \"Dreadful news from Glencoe. Thoughts with all those affected.\"David Gibson, chief officer of the Mountaineering Council of Scotland (MCoS), said Bidean Nam Bian is a Munro \u2013 a mountain with a height in excess of 3,000ft \u2013 with a number of different climbs.\"It is a fantastic location to go climbing at this time of the year as it is very beautiful,\" he said. \"It is always difficult in these circumstances, but I think the advice we would give to people is to check the weather and avalanche forecasts before setting off, and to assess the risks. The thoughts of the MCoS are with all of those involved and the rescue services up there doing the\u00a0job.\"In a separate incident on Friday, six hillwalkers were airlifted from the Cairn Toul area of the Cairngorms when a woman became lost in severe weather. She was being monitored at Raigmore Hospital yesterday.In 2009/10 five people were killed by avalanches on Scottish mountains and last weekend avalanche awareness courses were launched for Scottish climbers, There have already been 45 avalanches on Scotland's mountains this winter, according to the SAIS. There were more than 175 recorded last year.Avalanches claimed the lives of three climbers in 2009 on the slopes of Buachaille Etive Mor in Glencoe, and, in February 2010, Christopher Walker, 29, a mountain instructor from Keswick, Cumbria, and Robert Pritchard, 37, from New Malden, Surrey, were hit by a small avalanche in the same area.","A climber who survived an avalanche in the Scottish Highlands that killed four of his friends spoke last night about his \"sadness\" and \"deep regret\" at their deaths.Three of the climbers who died in the accident on the mountain near Glencoe on Saturday have now been named by police.The Northern Constabulary said Tom Chesters, 28, a PhD student at the University of Hull, Una Finnegan, 25, a junior doctor from Co Antrim and Christopher Bell, 24, who was studying in Oban, perished. A fourth victim, a woman, also died, while another 24-year-old woman is critically ill with serious head injuries in the Southern General Hospital, Glasgow.The sixth surviving climber, who is believed to have jumped clear of the collapsing snow and anchored an ice axe into firmer ground, issued a statement yesterday: \"On Saturday, five of my friends and I were descending a mountain in Glencoe named Stob Coire nam Beith in an area known as Church Door Buttress when the party was swept away by a snow avalanche.\"It is with much sadness and deep regret that some of my friends have died as a result.\"All in the group loved the mountains and are experienced winter walkers.\"My sincere thanks go to the members of the public, mountain rescue teams and other emergency services who assisted.\"The four climbers plunged around 1,000 feet before being buried under up to two metres of snow.Andy Nelson, deputy head of Glencoe Mountain Rescue, who led the rescue, described being caught in an avalanche as \"a brutal experience\".","Manchester United midfielder Paul Scholes has been the target of car theives who stole his top-of-the-range 4x4 as he defrosted the windscreen.According to the Press Association, sources have confirmed the footballer was involved in the incident yesterday morning.Scholes apparently left the engine of his grey Chevrolet Captiva Estate running in order to melt the ice while it was parked on his driveway.The 38-year-old former England international returned back inside his home in Oldham only to find the car missing when he returned.A spokesman said: \"Police are investigating after a car was stolen while the owner was defrosting the vehicle.\"The grey Chevrolet Estate was stolen from the drive of a house in the Greenfield area of Oldham between 7.45am and 8am on Monday 28 January 2013.\"Inquiries to locate the car are ongoing.\"","Competition is \u201cworking well\u201d in the UK road fuel market and rises in pump prices over the past decade are largely due to increases in tax and the cost of crude oil, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has reported.To the disappointment of\u00a0 campaigners, it found \"very limited evidence\" that pump prices rise quickly when the wholesale price goes up but fall more slowly when it drops.The OFT said its investigation into the market did identify a lack of pricing information on motorways as a concern and it not rule out taking action in some local markets if there was \"persuasive evidence of anti-competitive behaviour\".The OFT launched a call for information on the UK road fuel sector in September last year to determine whether there were competition problems that need to be addressed before investigating concerns over the prices charged for petrol and diesel at the pumps.Campaigners had called for the watchdog to announce a full investigation into the sector, saying there needs to be greater scrutiny.But the OFT said that the UK had some of the cheapest pre-tax road fuel prices in Europe, noting that in the 10 years to 2012 pump prices increased from 76 pence per litre (ppl) to 136ppl for petrol, and from 78ppl to 142ppl for diesel, caused largely by an increase of nearly 24ppl in tax and duty and 33ppl in the cost of crude oil.It said a key feature of the sector over the past decade had been the growing influence of the big four supermarkets, which had increased their share of road fuel sold in the UK from 29% in 2004 to 39% in 2012, and with the ability to sell at cheaper prices.It recognised that many independent dealers had found it difficult to compete in the sector, with the overall number of UK forecourts falling from 10,867 in 2004 to 8,677 in 2012.The OFT found that petrol and diesel tended to be cheaper in local areas that had a greater number of local retailers, in particular areas where there were supermarket forecourts, with prices tending to be more expensive in rural areas than in urban areas.It also reported that it had not received evidence of any anti-competitive practices being used against independent dealers that might lead it to take enforcement action.Its analysis of the relationship between retail and wholesale prices at both a national and local market level, as well as the relationship between crude oil prices and wholesale prices at a national level, turned up \"very limited evidence to support claims of so-called rocket and feather pricing.But it warned that fuel was often significantly more expensive at motorway service stations, with average prices in August 2012 7.5ppl higher for petrol and 8.3ppl higher for diesel than at other UK forecourts.The OFT said it was concerned that drivers were not able to view prices until they had pulled into the service station and had asked the Department for Transport to consider introducing new road signs that would display prices for motorway drivers.OFT chief executive Clive Maxwell said: \"We recognise that there has been widespread mistrust in how this market is operating. However, our analysis suggests that competition is working well, and rises in pump prices over the past decade or so have largely been down to increases in tax and the cost of crude oil.\"Our call for information has not identified any evidence of anti-competitive behaviour in the fuel market at a national level, where competition appears to be strong. There may be some issues at a local level. Where we receive evidence of potential anti-competitive behaviour we will consider taking action. For example, we have recently opened an investigation into the supply of road fuel in the Western Isles of Scotland.\"Campaigners said they were \"extremely disappointed\" with the OFT's findings.FairFuelUK spokesman Quentin Willson said: \"UK consumers will be bitterly disappointed. The nation will feel let down. Quite frankly, I'm shocked. The OFT investigated in 1998 and now have done so again. Every motorist and business in Britain instinctively knows that something's not right. The Americans and the Germans are holding inquiries - why aren't we?\"The OFT appears to have failed to address the key issues of why diesel is more expensive than unleaded in the UK when this is not the case in Europe, why falls in the oil price take so long to be reflected at the pump and why there are such variations in price, often from the same branded forecourts, within the same area.\"They did not address the whistleblower evidence of potential rigging of the oil commodity market. Where is the fairness in all of this?\"RAC technical director David Bizley said: \"We're extremely disappointed to hear the OFT will not be launching a full-scale review of petrol and diesel pricing in the UK. We have campaigned long and hard for greater price transparency and will continue to do so until this is recognised as a serious issue.\"UK consumers have seen a 38% increase in the price of petrol and a 43% increase in diesel costs between 2007 and 2012. The reasons behind this massive rise need to be conveyed clearly to the motoring public and justified so that households, businesses and the economy as a whole are not harmed by ever-increasing pump prices.\"RAC research has demonstrated that the car is an essential part of day-to-day life of a vast number of families. As many as 53% of people said they could only transport their children to school by car, while 57% admitted they could not do a weekly food shop and other essential activities without their vehicle.\"It is a great shame the OFT has not taken this opportunity to instigate a full investigation into this issue which many motorists view as daylight robbery. Our members want to see fairness and transparency and the authorities and industry bodies have an obligation to deliver this. We strongly urge the OFT to reconsider the decision.\"PA","Competition is \u201cworking well\u201d in the UK road fuel market and rises in pump prices over the past decade are largely due to increases in tax and the cost of crude oil, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has reported.To the disappointment of\u00a0 campaigners, it found \"very limited evidence\" that pump prices rise quickly when the wholesale price goes up but fall more slowly when it drops.The OFT said its investigation into the market did identify a lack of pricing information on motorways as a concern and it not rule out taking action in some local markets if there was \"persuasive evidence of anti-competitive behaviour\".The OFT launched a call for information on the UK road fuel sector in September last year to determine whether there were competition problems that need to be addressed before investigating concerns over the prices charged for petrol and diesel at the pumps.Campaigners had called for the watchdog to announce a full investigation into the sector, saying there needs to be greater scrutiny.But the OFT said that the UK had some of the cheapest pre-tax road fuel prices in Europe, noting that in the 10 years to 2012 pump prices increased from 76 pence per litre (ppl) to 136ppl for petrol, and from 78ppl to 142ppl for diesel, caused largely by an increase of nearly 24ppl in tax and duty and 33ppl in the cost of crude oil.It said a key feature of the sector over the past decade had been the growing influence of the big four supermarkets, which had increased their share of road fuel sold in the UK from 29% in 2004 to 39% in 2012, and with the ability to sell at cheaper prices.It recognised that many independent dealers had found it difficult to compete in the sector, with the overall number of UK forecourts falling from 10,867 in 2004 to 8,677 in 2012.The OFT found that petrol and diesel tended to be cheaper in local areas that had a greater number of local retailers, in particular areas where there were supermarket forecourts, with prices tending to be more expensive in rural areas than in urban areas.It also reported that it had not received evidence of any anti-competitive practices being used against independent dealers that might lead it to take enforcement action.Its analysis of the relationship between retail and wholesale prices at both a national and local market level, as well as the relationship between crude oil prices and wholesale prices at a national level, turned up \"very limited evidence to support claims of so-called rocket and feather pricing.But it warned that fuel was often significantly more expensive at motorway service stations, with average prices in August 2012 7.5ppl higher for petrol and 8.3ppl higher for diesel than at other UK forecourts.The OFT said it was concerned that drivers were not able to view prices until they had pulled into the service station and had asked the Department for Transport to consider introducing new road signs that would display prices for motorway drivers.OFT chief executive Clive Maxwell said: \"We recognise that there has been widespread mistrust in how this market is operating. However, our analysis suggests that competition is working well, and rises in pump prices over the past decade or so have largely been down to increases in tax and the cost of crude oil.\"Our call for information has not identified any evidence of anti-competitive behaviour in the fuel market at a national level, where competition appears to be strong. There may be some issues at a local level. Where we receive evidence of potential anti-competitive behaviour we will consider taking action. For example, we have recently opened an investigation into the supply of road fuel in the Western Isles of Scotland.\"Campaigners said they were \"extremely disappointed\" with the OFT's findings.FairFuelUK spokesman Quentin Willson said: \"UK consumers will be bitterly disappointed. The nation will feel let down. Quite frankly, I'm shocked. The OFT investigated in 1998 and now have done so again. Every motorist and business in Britain instinctively knows that something's not right. The Americans and the Germans are holding inquiries - why aren't we?\"The OFT appears to have failed to address the key issues of why diesel is more expensive than unleaded in the UK when this is not the case in Europe, why falls in the oil price take so long to be reflected at the pump and why there are such variations in price, often from the same branded forecourts, within the same area.\"They did not address the whistleblower evidence of potential rigging of the oil commodity market. Where is the fairness in all of this?\"RAC technical director David Bizley said: \"We're extremely disappointed to hear the OFT will not be launching a full-scale review of petrol and diesel pricing in the UK. We have campaigned long and hard for greater price transparency and will continue to do so until this is recognised as a serious issue.\"UK consumers have seen a 38% increase in the price of petrol and a 43% increase in diesel costs between 2007 and 2012. The reasons behind this massive rise need to be conveyed clearly to the motoring public and justified so that households, businesses and the economy as a whole are not harmed by ever-increasing pump prices.\"RAC research has demonstrated that the car is an essential part of day-to-day life of a vast number of families. As many as 53% of people said they could only transport their children to school by car, while 57% admitted they could not do a weekly food shop and other essential activities without their vehicle.\"It is a great shame the OFT has not taken this opportunity to instigate a full investigation into this issue which many motorists view as daylight robbery. Our members want to see fairness and transparency and the authorities and industry bodies have an obligation to deliver this. We strongly urge the OFT to reconsider the decision.\"PA","Polish is the second most common main language in England and Wales with more than half a million speakers, according to new figures from the 2011 Census.Nearly one in 10 people in England and Wales - 8% - reported speaking a different main language other than English or Welsh in the census, findings from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) have shown.Polish was the second most commonly reported main language with 546,000 speakers, reflecting more than half a million Poles who migrated to England and Wales during the last decade.Redcar and Cleveland local authority had the highest percentage of people with English as their main language at 99% of the population, with Ealing listing the highest proportion of Polish speakers at 6% of the population.In all but three of the London boroughs - the City of London, Richmond Upon Thames, and Hillingdon - more than 100 languages were listed as main languages.Of the four million residents of England and Wales who spoke a main language other than English, 1.7 million said they could speak English very well, 726,000 could speak English but not well and 138,000 could not speak English at all.The least common main language in England and Wales was listed as Manx-Gaelic with 33 speakers, followed by 58 Gaelic Scottish speakers.London had the highest proportion, at 22%, of people who reported that English was not their main language, with the North East reporting the lowest percentage in this category, at 3%.The figures also showed that not all languages were spoken - with 22,000 people using sign language.The census also appeared to confirm a boom in cycling in London, with 161,700 people, or 2.6%, using bicycles to get to work in the capital.This compared with 77,000 a decade ago, the ONS said, but these figures were not strictly comparable as the 2001 figures did not include those people who said they worked from home.Cambridge remained the local authority with the highest proportion who cycle to work, at 18%, or 17,755 people.In spite of the surge in cycling, the majority of 16 to 74-year-olds in England and Wales said they drove a car or van to work, at 58% or 15 million.A further 5%, or 1.4 million, travelled to work as a passenger in a car or van. In London, 50%, or two million, used public transport to get to work, compared with 31%, or 1.3 million, who travelled by car, motorcycle or taxi.MAIN 20 LANGUAGES SPOKEN IN THE UK:: English (English or Welsh if in Wales) 49,808,000 or 92.3% of the population:: Polish 546,000 or 1%:: Punjabi 273,000 or 0.5%:: Urdu 269,000 or 0.5%:: Bengali (with Sylheti and Chatgaya) 221,000 or 0.4%:: Gujarati 213,000 or 0.4%:: Arabic 159,000 or 0.3%:: French 147,000 or 0.3%:: All other Chinese (excludes Mandarin and Cantonese) 141,000 or 0.3%:: Portuguese 133,000 or 0.2%:: Spanish 120,000 or 0.2%:: Tamil 101,000 or 0.2%:: Turkish 99,000 or 0.2%:: Italian 92,000 or 0.2%:: Somali 86,000 or 0.2%:: Lithuanian 85,000 or 0.2%:: German 77,000 or 0.1%:: Persian/Farsi 76,000 or 0.1%:: Tagalog/Filipino 70,000 or 0.1%:: Romanian 68,000 or 0.1%PA","A fresh blast of wet weather is set to sweep the country, forcing the Environmental Agency to issue over 150 flood alerts.The rain will be heaviest in western England, although parts of Scotland will also experience blustery showers and possibly even snow.By 8am this morning, the Environmental Agency had issued 36 flood warnings and 153 flood alerts, with the majority posted in the Midlands and the North West.The flooding comes as gusts of up to 85mph ravage the country and the remaining snow from last week\u2019s heavy downfalls begins to melt.There are concerns that as the Big Thaw intensifies, the excess water will flow into already swollen rivers that are at risking of breaking their banks.The wet weather is set to continue into tomorrow, with showers from Scotland moving into northern England, sending temperatures plummeting.Saturday will be bright and breezy in most parts, with widespread dry areas except in north east England and south east Scotland."]}]
